goid	go_term	go_aspect	go_definition
GO:0000015	phosphopyruvate hydratase complex	C	A multimeric enzyme complex, usually a dimer or an octamer, that catalyzes the conversion of 2-phospho-D-glycerate to phosphoenolpyruvate and water.
GO:0000054	ribosomal subunit export from nucleus	P	The directed movement of a ribosomal subunit from the nucleus into the cytoplasm.
GO:0000110	nucleotide-excision repair factor 1 complex	C	One of several protein complexes involved in nucleotide-excision repair; possesses DNA damage recognition and endodeoxynuclease activities. In S. cerevisiae, it is composed of Rad1p, Rad10p, and Rad14p; in human the subunits are ERCC4/XPF, ERCC1 and XPA, respectively.
GO:0000111	nucleotide-excision repair factor 2 complex	C	One of several protein complexes involved in nucleotide-excision repair; possesses damaged DNA binding activity. In S. cerevisiae, it is composed of Rad4p and Rad23p.
GO:0000112	nucleotide-excision repair factor 3 complex	C	One of several protein complexes involved in nucleotide-excision repair; possesses endodeoxynuclease and DNA helicase activities. In S. cerevisiae, it is composed of Rad2p and the core TFIIH-Ssl2p complex (core TFIIH is composed of Rad3p, Tfb1p, Tfb2p, Ssl1p, Tfb4p and Tfb5p. Note that Ssl2p is also called Rad25p).
GO:0000113	nucleotide-excision repair factor 4 complex	C	One of several protein complexes involved in nucleotide-excision repair; possesses DNA damage recognition and DNA-dependent ATPase activities. In S. cerevisiae, it is composed of Rad7p and Rad16p.
GO:0000118	histone deacetylase complex	C	A protein complex that possesses histone deacetylase activity.
GO:0000120	RNA polymerase I transcription factor complex	C	A transcription factor complex that acts at promoters of genes transcribed by RNA polymerase I.
GO:0000123	histone acetyltransferase complex	C	A protein complex that possesses histone acetyltransferase activity.
GO:0000124	SAGA complex	C	A SAGA-type histone acetyltransferase complex that contains Spt8 (in budding yeast) or a homolog thereof; additional polypeptides include Spt group, consisting of Spt7, Spt3, and Spt20/Ada5, which interact with the TATA-binding protein (TBP); the Ada group, consisting of Ada1, Ada2, Ada3, Ada4/Gcn5, and Ada5/Spt20, which is functionally linked to the nucleosomal HAT activity; Tra1, an ATM/PI-3 kinase-related protein that targets DNA-bound activators for recruitment to promoters; the TBP-associated factor (TAF) proteins, consisting of Taf5, Taf6, Taf9, Taf10, and Taf12, which mediate nucleosomal HAT activity and are thought to help recruit the basal transcription machinery.
GO:0000126	transcription factor TFIIIB complex	C	A transcription factor complex that is involved in regulating transcription from RNA polymerase III (Pol III) promoters. TFIIIB contains the TATA-binding protein (TBP) and two Pol III-specific proteins, B'' and BRF.
GO:0000127	transcription factor TFIIIC complex	C	A heterotrimeric transcription factor complex that is involved in regulating transcription from RNA polymerase III (Pol III) promoters. TFIIIC contains three conserved subunits that associate with the proximal Pol III promoter element, and additional subunits that associate with sequence elements downstream of the promoter and are more diverged among species. It also functions as a boundary element to partition genome content into distinct domains outside Pol III promoter regions.
GO:0000133	polarisome	C	Protein complex that plays a role in determining cell polarity by directing the localized assembly of actin filaments at polarization sites; in Saccharomyces the polarisome includes Bni1p, Spa2p, Pea2p, and Bud6p.
GO:0000136	alpha-1,6-mannosyltransferase complex	C	A large, multiprotein complex with alpha-(1->6)-mannosyltransferase activity, located in the cis Golgi membrane; adds mannan to N-linked glycans on proteins.
GO:0000145	exocyst	C	A protein complex peripherally associated with the plasma membrane that determines where vesicles dock and fuse. At least eight complex components are conserved between yeast and mammals.
GO:0000148	1,3-beta-D-glucan synthase complex	C	A protein complex that catalyzes the transfer of a glucose group from UDP-glucose to a (1->3)-beta-D-glucan chain.
GO:0000151	ubiquitin ligase complex	C	A protein complex that includes a ubiquitin-protein ligase and other proteins that may confer substrate specificity on the complex.
GO:0000159	protein phosphatase type 2A complex	C	A protein complex that has protein serine/threonine phosphatase activity that is polycation-stimulated (PCS), being directly stimulated by protamine, polylysine, or histone H1; it constitutes a subclass of several enzymes activated by different histones and polylysine, and consists of catalytic, scaffolding, and regulatory subunits. The catalytic and scaffolding subunits form the core enzyme, and the holoenzyme also includes the regulatory subunit.
GO:0000164	protein phosphatase type 1 complex	C	A protein complex that possesses magnesium-dependent protein serine/threonine phosphatase (AMD phosphatase) activity, and consists of a catalytic subunit and one or more regulatory subunits that dictates the phosphatase's substrate specificity, function, and activity.
GO:0000172	ribonuclease MRP complex	C	A ribonucleoprotein complex that contains an RNA molecule of the snoRNA family, and cleaves the rRNA precursor as part of rRNA transcript processing. It also has other roles: In S. cerevisiae it is involved in cell cycle-regulated degradation of daughter cell-specific mRNAs, while in mammalian cells it also enters the mitochondria and processes RNAs to create RNA primers for DNA replication.
GO:0000176	nuclear exosome (RNase complex)	C	Complex of 3'-5' exoribonucleases found in the nucleus.
GO:0000177	cytoplasmic exosome (RNase complex)	C	Complex of 3'-5' exoribonucleases found in the cytoplasm.
GO:0000178	exosome (RNase complex)	C	Complex of 3'-5' exoribonucleases.
GO:0000214	tRNA-intron endonuclease complex	C	A protein complex that catalyzes the endonucleolytic cleavage of pre-tRNA, producing 5'-hydroxyl and 2',3'-cyclic phosphate termini, and specifically removing the intron.
GO:0000220	vacuolar proton-transporting V-type ATPase, V0 domain	C	The V0 domain of a proton-transporting V-type ATPase found in the vacuolar membrane.
GO:0000221	vacuolar proton-transporting V-type ATPase, V1 domain	C	The V1 domain of a proton-transporting V-type ATPase found in the vacuolar membrane.
GO:0000235	astral microtubule	C	Any of the spindle microtubules that radiate in all directions from the spindle poles and are thought to contribute to the forces that separate the poles and position them in relation to the rest of the cell.
GO:0000243	commitment complex	C	A spliceosomal complex that is formed by association of the U1 snRNP with the 5' splice site of an unspliced intron in an RNA transcript.
GO:0000274	mitochondrial proton-transporting ATP synthase, stator stalk	C	One of two stalks that connect the catalytic core of the hydrogen-transporting ATP synthase to the mitochondrial membrane-associated F0 proteins; is thought to prevent futile rotation of the catalytic core.
GO:0000276	mitochondrial proton-transporting ATP synthase complex, coupling factor F(o)	C	All non-F1 subunits of the mitochondrial hydrogen-transporting ATP synthase, including integral and peripheral mitochondrial inner membrane proteins.
GO:0000278	mitotic cell cycle	P	Progression through the phases of the mitotic cell cycle, the most common eukaryotic cell cycle, which canonically comprises four successive phases called G1, S, G2, and M and includes replication of the genome and the subsequent segregation of chromosomes into daughter cells. In some variant cell cycles nuclear replication or nuclear division may not be followed by cell division, or G1 and G2 phases may be absent.
GO:0000307	cyclin-dependent protein kinase holoenzyme complex	C	Cyclin-dependent protein kinases (CDKs) are heterodimeric enzymes that contain a kinase catalytic subunit associated with a regulatory cyclin partner.
GO:0000333	telomerase catalytic core complex	C	The minimal catalytic core of telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein complex composed of a catalytic reverse transcriptase subunit and an RNA subunit that provides the template for telomeric DNA addition.
GO:0000346	transcription export complex	C	The transcription export (TREX) complex couples transcription elongation by RNA polymerase II to mRNA export. The complex associates with the polymerase and travels with it along the length of the transcribed gene. TREX is composed of the THO transcription elongation complex as well as other proteins that couple THO to mRNA export proteins. The TREX complex is known to be found in a wide range of eukaryotes, including S. cerevisiae and metazoans.
GO:0000408	EKC/KEOPS complex	C	A protein complex proposed to be involved in transcription as well as promoting telomere uncapping and telomere elongation. For example, in Saccharomyces cerevisiae the complex contains Bud32p, Kae1p, Gon7p, Cgi121p, and Pcc1p.
GO:0000417	HIR complex	C	A protein complex proposed to be involved in replication-independent nucleosome assembly, by promoting histone deposition onto DNA. For example, in Saccharomyces, the complex contains Hir1p, Hir2p, Hir3p, and Hpc2p.
GO:0000439	core TFIIH complex	C	The 7 subunit core of TFIIH that is a part of either the general transcription factor holo-TFIIH or the nucleotide-excision repair factor 3 complex. In S. cerevisiae/humans the complex is composed of: Ssl2/XPB, Tfb1/p62, Tfb2/p52, Ssl1/p44, Tfb4/p34, Tfb5/p8 and Rad3/XPD.
GO:0000445	THO complex part of transcription export complex	C	The THO complex when it is part of the TREX (TRanscription EXport) complex that is involved in coupling transcription to export of mRNAs to the cytoplasm. In S. cerevisiae, it is composed of four subunits: Hpr1, Tho2, Thp1, and Mft1, while the human complex is composed of 7 subunits.
GO:0000446	nucleoplasmic THO complex	C	The THO complex when it is acting as a nuclear complex that is required for transcription elongation through genes containing tandemly repeated DNA sequences. In S. cerevisiae, it is composed of four subunits: Hpr1, Tho2, Thp2, and Mft1, while the human complex is composed of 7 subunits.
GO:0000500	RNA polymerase I upstream activating factor complex	C	A complex required for the transcription of rDNA by RNA polymerase I. In yeast the complex consists of Rrrn5p, Rrn9p, Rrn10p, histones H3 and H4, and Uaf30p.
GO:0000502	proteasome complex	C	A large multisubunit complex which catalyzes protein degradation, found in eukaryotes, archaea and some bacteria. In eukaryotes, this complex consists of the barrel shaped proteasome core complex and one or two associated proteins or complexes that act in regulating entry into or exit from the core.
GO:0000506	glycosylphosphatidylinositol-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (GPI-GnT) complex	C	An enzyme complex that catalyzes the transfer of GlcNAc from UDP-GlcNAc to an acceptor phosphatidylinositol, the first step in the production of GPI anchors for cell surface proteins. The complex contains PIG-A, PIG-C, PIG-H, PIG-Q, PIG-P, and DPM2 in human, and Eri1p, Gpi1p, Gpi2p, Gpi15p, Gpi19p, and Spt14p in budding yeast.
GO:0000746	conjugation	P	The union or introduction of genetic information from compatible mating types that results in a genetically different individual. Conjugation requires direct cellular contact between the organisms.
GO:0000775	chromosome, centromeric region	C	The region of a chromosome that includes the centromeric DNA and associated proteins. In monocentric chromosomes, this region corresponds to a single area of the chromosome, whereas in holocentric chromosomes, it is evenly distributed along the chromosome.
GO:0000776	kinetochore	C	A multisubunit complex that is located at the centromeric region of DNA and provides an attachment point for the spindle microtubules.
GO:0000778	condensed nuclear chromosome kinetochore	C	A multisubunit complex that is located at the centromeric region of a condensed chromosome in the nucleus and provides an attachment point for the spindle microtubules.
GO:0000780	condensed nuclear chromosome, centromeric region	C	The region of a condensed chromosome in the nucleus that includes the centromere and associated proteins, including the kinetochore. In monocentric chromosomes, this region corresponds to a single area of the chromosome, whereas in holocentric chromosomes, it is evenly distributed along the chromosome.
GO:0000783	nuclear telomere cap complex	C	A complex of DNA and protein located at the end of a linear chromosome in the nucleus that protects and stabilizes a linear chromosome.
GO:0000788	nuclear nucleosome	C	A complex comprised of DNA wound around a multisubunit core and associated proteins, which forms the primary packing unit of DNA in the nucleus into higher order structures.
GO:0000798	nuclear cohesin complex	C	A cohesin complex required for cohesion between sister chromatids that remain in the nucleus.
GO:0000799	nuclear condensin complex	C	A multisubunit protein complex that plays a central role in the condensation of chromosomes that remain in the nucleus.
GO:0000811	GINS complex	C	A heterotetrameric protein complex that associates with replication origins, where it is required for the initiation of DNA replication, and with replication forks.
GO:0000812	Swr1 complex	C	A multisubunit protein complex that is involved in chromatin remodeling. It is required for the incorporation of the histone variant H2AZ into chromatin. In S. cerevisiae, the complex contains Swr1p, a Swi2/Snf2-related ATPase, and 12 additional subunits.
GO:0000813	ESCRT I complex	C	An endosomal sorting complex required for transport. It consists of the class E vacuolar protein sorting (Vps) proteins and interacts with ubiquitinated cargoes.
GO:0000814	ESCRT II complex	C	An endosomal sorting complex required for transport and functions downstream of ESCRT I complex. It consists of the class E vacuolar protein sorting (Vps) proteins and is required for the membrane recruitment of ESCRT III complex and binds to ubiquitinated cargoes.
GO:0000815	ESCRT III complex	C	An endosomal sorting complex required for transport. Consists of two soluble subcomplexes of highly charged coiled-coil proteins and is required for sorting and/or concentration of multivesicular body (MVB) cargoes.
GO:0000817	COMA complex	C	A multiprotein complex in yeast consisting of Ctf19p, Okp1p, Mcm21p, and Ame1p. This complex bridges the subunits that are in contact with centromeric DNA and the subunits bound to microtubules during kinetochore assembly.
GO:0000818	nuclear MIS12/MIND complex	C	A multiprotein kinetochore subcomplex that binds to centromeric chromatin and forms part of the inner kinetochore of a chromosome in the nucleus. It helps to recruit outer kinetochore subunits that will bind to microtubules. Nuclear localization arises in some organisms because the nuclear envelope is not broken down during mitosis. In S. cerevisiae, it consists of at least four proteins: Mtw1p, Nnf1p, Nsl1p, and Dsn1.
GO:0000837	Doa10p ubiquitin ligase complex	C	A multiprotein complex that recognizes and ubiquitinates membranes proteins with misfolded cytosolic domains during ER-associated protein degradation (ERAD). In S. cerevisiae, this complex contains the ubiquitin ligase Ssm4p/Doa10p.
GO:0000838	Hrd1p ubiquitin ligase ERAD-M complex	C	A multiprotein complex that recognizes and ubiquitinates proteins with misfolded membrane domains during ER-associated protein degradation (ERAD). In S. cerevisiae, this complex contains the ubiquitin ligase Hrd1p.
GO:0000839	Hrd1p ubiquitin ligase ERAD-L complex	C	A multiprotein complex that recognizes and ubiquitinates proteins with misfolded luminal domains during ER-associated protein degradation (ERAD). In S. cerevisiae, this complex contains the ubiquitin ligase Hrd1p.
GO:0000902	cell morphogenesis	P	The developmental process in which the size or shape of a cell is generated and organized.
GO:0000910	cytokinesis	P	The division of the cytoplasm and the plasma membrane of a cell and its separation into two daughter cells.
GO:0000922	spindle pole	C	Either of the ends of a spindle, where spindle microtubules are organized; usually contains a microtubule organizing center and accessory molecules, spindle microtubules and astral microtubules.
GO:0000928	gamma-tubulin small complex, spindle pole body	C	A complex composed of two gamma-tubulin molecules and conserved non-tubulin proteins located in the spindle pole body and isolated by fractionation from cells. The complex, approximately 6S-9S, is analogous to the small complex in animal cells but contains fewer subunits, and is not thought to multimerize into larger functional units, like complexes in those organisms. An example of this structure is found in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
GO:0000932	cytoplasmic mRNA processing body	C	A focus in the cytoplasm where mRNAs may become inactivated by decapping or some other mechanism. mRNA processing and binding proteins are localized to these foci.
GO:0000938	GARP complex	C	A quatrefoil tethering complex required for retrograde traffic from the early endosome back to the late Golgi and biogenesis of cytoplasmic vesicles.
GO:0000942	condensed nuclear chromosome outer kinetochore	C	The region of a condensed nuclear chromosome kinetochore most external to centromeric DNA; this outer region mediates kinetochore-microtubule interactions.
GO:0000974	Prp19 complex	C	A protein complex consisting of Prp19 and associated proteins that is involved in the transition from the precatalytic spliceosome to the activated form that catalyzes step 1 of splicing, and which remains associated with the spliceosome through the second catalytic step. It is widely conserved, found in both yeast and mammals, though the exact composition varies. In S. cerevisiae, it contains Prp19p, Ntc20p, Snt309p, Isy1p, Syf2p, Cwc2p, Prp46p, Clf1p, Cef1p, and Syf1p.
GO:0000988	protein binding transcription factor activity	F	Interacting selectively and non-covalently with any protein or protein complex (a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules), in order to modulate transcription. A protein binding transcription factor may or may not also interact with the template nucleic acid (either DNA or RNA) as well.
GO:0001071	nucleic acid binding transcription factor activity	F	Interacting selectively and non-covalently with a DNA or RNA sequence in order to modulate transcription. The transcription factor may or may not also interact selectively with a protein or macromolecular complex.
GO:0001401	mitochondrial sorting and assembly machinery complex	C	A large complex of the mitochondrial outer membrane that mediates sorting of some imported proteins to the outer membrane and their assembly in the membrane; functions after import of incoming proteins by the mitochondrial outer membrane translocase complex.
GO:0001403	invasive growth in response to glucose limitation	P	A growth pattern exhibited by budding haploid cells under certain growth conditions, in which cells retain the typical axial budding pattern of haploids, but become elongated and fail to separate after division; during growth on a solid substrate, this results in penetration of cells into the agar medium. An example of this process is found in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
GO:0001405	presequence translocase-associated import motor	C	Protein complex located on the matrix side of the mitochondrial inner membrane and associated with the presequence translocase complex; hydrolyzes ATP to provide the force to drive import of proteins into the mitochondrial matrix.
GO:0002181	cytoplasmic translation	P	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a protein in the cytoplasm. This is a ribosome-mediated process in which the information in messenger RNA (mRNA) is used to specify the sequence of amino acids in the protein.
GO:0003674	molecular_function	F	Elemental activities, such as catalysis or binding, describing the actions of a gene product at the molecular level. A given gene product may exhibit one or more molecular functions.
GO:0003677	DNA binding	F	Any molecular function by which a gene product interacts selectively and non-covalently with DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid).
GO:0003682	chromatin binding	F	Interacting selectively and non-covalently with chromatin, the network of fibers of DNA, protein, and sometimes RNA, that make up the chromosomes of the eukaryotic nucleus during interphase.
GO:0003723	RNA binding	F	Interacting selectively and non-covalently with an RNA molecule or a portion thereof.
GO:0003729	mRNA binding	F	Interacting selectively and non-covalently with messenger RNA (mRNA), an intermediate molecule between DNA and protein. mRNA includes UTR and coding sequences, but does not contain introns.
GO:0003735	structural constituent of ribosome	F	The action of a molecule that contributes to the structural integrity of the ribosome.
GO:0003924	GTPase activity	F	Catalysis of the reaction: GTP + H2O = GDP + phosphate.
GO:0004386	helicase activity	F	Catalysis of the reaction: NTP + H2O = NDP + phosphate, to drive the unwinding of a DNA or RNA helix.
GO:0004518	nuclease activity	F	Catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids.
GO:0004871	signal transducer activity	F	Conveys a signal across a cell to trigger a change in cell function or state. A signal is a physical entity or change in state that is used to transfer information in order to trigger a response.
GO:0005085	guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity	F	Stimulates the exchange of guanyl nucleotides associated with a GTPase. Under normal cellular physiological conditions, the concentration of GTP is higher than that of GDP, favoring the replacement of GDP by GTP in association with the GTPase.
GO:0005198	structural molecule activity	F	The action of a molecule that contributes to the structural integrity of a complex or assembly within or outside a cell.
GO:0005575	cellular_component	C	The part of a cell or its extracellular environment in which a gene product is located. A gene product may be located in one or more parts of a cell and its location may be as specific as a particular macromolecular complex, that is, a stable, persistent association of macromolecules that function together.
GO:0005576	extracellular region	C	The space external to the outermost structure of a cell. For cells without external protective or external encapsulating structures this refers to space outside of the plasma membrane. This term covers the host cell environment outside an intracellular parasite.
GO:0005618	cell wall	C	The rigid or semi-rigid envelope lying outside the cell membrane of plant, fungal, most prokaryotic cells and some protozoan parasites, maintaining their shape and protecting them from osmotic lysis. In plants it is made of cellulose and, often, lignin; in fungi it is composed largely of polysaccharides; in bacteria it is composed of peptidoglycan; in protozoan parasites such as Giardia species, it's made of carbohydrates and proteins.
GO:0005634	nucleus	C	A membrane-bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated. In most cells, the nucleus contains all of the cell's chromosomes except the organellar chromosomes, and is the site of RNA synthesis and processing. In some species, or in specialized cell types, RNA metabolism or DNA replication may be absent.
GO:0005643	nuclear pore	C	Any of the numerous similar discrete openings in the nuclear envelope of a eukaryotic cell, where the inner and outer nuclear membranes are joined.
GO:0005655	nucleolar ribonuclease P complex	C	A ribonuclease P complex located in the nucleolus of a eukaryotic cell, where it catalyzes the 5' endonucleolytic cleavage of precursor tRNAs to yield mature tRNAs. Eukaryotic nucleolar ribonuclease P complexes generally contain a single RNA molecule that is necessary but not sufficient for catalysis, and several protein molecules.
GO:0005656	nuclear pre-replicative complex	C	A protein-DNA complex assembled at eukaryotic DNA replication origins during late mitosis and G1, allowing the origin to become competent, or 'licensed', for replication. The complex normally includes the origin recognition complex (ORC), Cdc6, Cdt1 and the MiniChromosome Maintenance (Mcm2-7) proteins.
GO:0005658	alpha DNA polymerase:primase complex	C	A complex of four polypeptides, comprising large and small DNA polymerase alpha subunits and two primase subunits, which catalyzes the synthesis of an RNA primer on the lagging strand of replicating DNA; the smaller of the two primase subunits alone can catalyze oligoribonucleotide synthesis.
GO:0005662	DNA replication factor A complex	C	A conserved heterotrimeric complex that binds nonspecifically to single-stranded DNA and is required for multiple processes in eukaryotic DNA metabolism, including DNA replication, DNA repair, and recombination. In all eukaryotic organisms examined the complex is composed of subunits of approximately 70, 30, and 14 kDa.
GO:0005663	DNA replication factor C complex	C	A complex of five polypeptides in eukaryotes, and two in prokaryotes, that loads the DNA polymerase processivity factor proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) onto DNA, thereby permitting processive DNA synthesis catalyzed by DNA polymerase.
GO:0005664	nuclear origin of replication recognition complex	C	A multisubunit complex that is located at the replication origins of a chromosome in the nucleus.
GO:0005665	DNA-directed RNA polymerase II, core complex	C	RNA polymerase II, one of three nuclear DNA-directed RNA polymerases found in all eukaryotes, is a multisubunit complex; typically it produces mRNAs, snoRNAs, and some of the snRNAs. Two large subunits comprise the most conserved portion including the catalytic site and share similarity with other eukaryotic and bacterial multisubunit RNA polymerases. The largest subunit of RNA polymerase II contains an essential carboxyl-terminal domain (CTD) composed of a variable number of heptapeptide repeats (YSPTSPS). The remainder of the complex is composed of smaller subunits (generally ten or more), some of which are also found in RNA polymerases I and III. Although the core is competent to mediate ribonucleic acid synthesis, it requires additional factors to select the appropriate template.
GO:0005666	DNA-directed RNA polymerase III complex	C	RNA polymerase III, one of three nuclear DNA-directed RNA polymerases found in all eukaryotes, is a multisubunit complex; typically it produces 5S rRNA, tRNAs and some of the small nuclear RNAs. Two large subunits comprise the most conserved portion including the catalytic site and share similarity with other eukaryotic and bacterial multisubunit RNA polymerases. The remainder of the complex is composed of smaller subunits (generally ten or more), some of which are also found in RNA polymerase I and others of which are also found in RNA polymerases I and II. Although the core is competent to mediate ribonucleic acid synthesis, it requires additional factors to select the appropriate template.
GO:0005667	transcription factor complex	C	A protein complex that is capable of associating with DNA by direct binding, or via other DNA-binding proteins or complexes, and regulating transcription.
GO:0005669	transcription factor TFIID complex	C	A complex composed of TATA binding protein (TBP) and TBP associated factors (TAFs); the total mass is typically about 800 kDa. Most of the TAFs are conserved across species. In TATA-containing promoters for RNA polymerase II (Pol II), TFIID is believed to recognize at least two distinct elements, the TATA element and a downstream promoter element. TFIID is also involved in recognition of TATA-less Pol II promoters. Binding of TFIID to DNA is necessary but not sufficient for transcription initiation from most RNA polymerase II promoters.
GO:0005671	Ada2/Gcn5/Ada3 transcription activator complex	C	A multiprotein complex that possesses histone acetyltransferase and is involved in regulation of transcription. Contains either GCN5 or PCAF in a mutually exclusive manner. The budding yeast complex includes Gcn5p, two proteins of the Ada family, and two TBP-associate proteins (TAFs); analogous complexes in other species have analogous compositions, and usually contain homologs of the yeast proteins. Both ATAC- or SAGA (see GO:0000124, SAGA complex) are involved in the acetylation of histone H3K9 and K14 residues.
GO:0005672	transcription factor TFIIA complex	C	A component of the transcription machinery of RNA Polymerase II. In humans, TFIIA is a heterotrimer composed of an alpha (P35), beta (P19) and gamma subunits (P12).
GO:0005673	transcription factor TFIIE complex	C	A transcription factor which in humans consists of a complex of two alpha and two beta chains. Recruits TFIIH to the initiation complex and helps activate both RNA polymerase II and TFIIH.
GO:0005674	transcription factor TFIIF complex	C	A general transcription initiation factor which in humans consists of a heterodimer of an alpha and a beta subunit. Helps recruit RNA polymerase II to the initiation complex and promotes translation elongation.
GO:0005675	holo TFIIH complex	C	A complex that is capable of kinase activity directed towards the C-terminal Domain (CTD) of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II and is essential for initiation at RNA polymerase II promoters in vitro. It is composed of the core TFIIH complex and the TFIIK complex.
GO:0005677	chromatin silencing complex	C	Any protein complex that mediates changes in chromatin structure that result in transcriptional silencing.
GO:0005680	anaphase-promoting complex	C	A ubiquitin ligase complex that degrades mitotic cyclins and anaphase inhibitory protein, thereby triggering sister chromatid separation and exit from mitosis. Substrate recognition by APC occurs through degradation signals, the most common of which is termed the Dbox degradation motif, originally discovered in cyclin B.
GO:0005681	spliceosomal complex	C	Any of a series of ribonucleoprotein complexes that contain RNA and small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs), and are formed sequentially during the splicing of a messenger RNA primary transcript to excise an intron.
GO:0005682	U5 snRNP	C	A ribonucleoprotein complex that contains small nuclear RNA U5.
GO:0005684	U2-type spliceosomal complex	C	Any spliceosomal complex that forms during the splicing of a messenger RNA primary transcript to excise an intron that has canonical consensus sequences near the 5' and 3' ends.
GO:0005685	U1 snRNP	C	A ribonucleoprotein complex that contains small nuclear RNA U1.
GO:0005686	U2 snRNP	C	A ribonucleoprotein complex that contains small nuclear RNA U2.
GO:0005688	U6 snRNP	C	A ribonucleoprotein complex that contains small nuclear RNA U6.
GO:0005694	chromosome	C	A structure composed of a very long molecule of DNA and associated proteins (e.g. histones) that carries hereditary information.
GO:0005697	telomerase holoenzyme complex	C	Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein enzyme complex, with a minimal catalytic core composed of a catalytic reverse transcriptase subunit and an RNA subunit that provides the template for telomeric DNA addition. In vivo, the holoenzyme complex often contains additional subunits.
GO:0005730	nucleolus	C	A small, dense body one or more of which are present in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. It is rich in RNA and protein, is not bounded by a limiting membrane, and is not seen during mitosis. Its prime function is the transcription of the nucleolar DNA into 45S ribosomal-precursor RNA, the processing of this RNA into 5.8S, 18S, and 28S components of ribosomal RNA, and the association of these components with 5S RNA and proteins synthesized outside the nucleolus. This association results in the formation of ribonucleoprotein precursors; these pass into the cytoplasm and mature into the 40S and 60S subunits of the ribosome.
GO:0005732	small nucleolar ribonucleoprotein complex	C	A ribonucleoprotein complex that contains an RNA molecule of the small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA) family and associated proteins. Most are involved in a step of processing of rRNA: cleavage, 2'-O-methylation, or pseudouridylation. The majority, though not all, fall into one of two classes, box C/D type or box H/ACA type.
GO:0005736	DNA-directed RNA polymerase I complex	C	RNA polymerase I, one of three nuclear DNA-directed RNA polymerases found in all eukaryotes, is a multisubunit complex; typically it produces rRNAs. Two large subunits comprise the most conserved portion including the catalytic site and share similarity with other eukaryotic and bacterial multisubunit RNA polymerases. The remainder of the complex is composed of smaller subunits (generally ten or more), some of which are also found in RNA polymerase III and others of which are also found in RNA polymerases II and III. Although the core is competent to mediate ribonucleic acid synthesis, it requires additional factors to select the appropriate template.
GO:0005737	cytoplasm	C	All of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus, but including other subcellular structures.
GO:0005739	mitochondrion	C	A semiautonomous, self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers, shapes, and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells. It is notably the site of tissue respiration.
GO:0005740	mitochondrial envelope	C	The double lipid bilayer enclosing the mitochondrion and separating its contents from the cell cytoplasm; includes the intermembrane space.
GO:0005742	mitochondrial outer membrane translocase complex	C	A large complex of the mitochondrial outer membrane that mediates transport of proteins into all mitochondrial compartments.
GO:0005744	mitochondrial inner membrane presequence translocase complex	C	The protein transport machinery of the mitochondrial inner membrane that contains three essential Tim proteins: Tim17 and Tim23 are thought to build a preprotein translocation channel while Tim44 interacts transiently with the matrix heat-shock protein Hsp70 to form an ATP-driven import motor.
GO:0005745	m-AAA complex	C	Protease complex of the mitochondrial inner membrane that is involved in mitochondrial protein turnover and in processing of proteins imported into mitochondria.
GO:0005749	mitochondrial respiratory chain complex II	C	A protein complex located in the mitochondrial inner membrane that forms part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Contains the four polypeptide subunits of succinate dehydrogenase, flavin-adenine dinucleotide and iron-sulfur. Catalyzes the oxidation of succinate by ubiquinone. Connects the TCA cycle with the respiratory chain.
GO:0005750	mitochondrial respiratory chain complex III	C	A protein complex located in the mitochondrial inner membrane that forms part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Contains about 10 polypeptide subunits including four redox centers: cytochrome b/b6, cytochrome c1 and an 2Fe-2S cluster. Catalyzes the oxidation of ubiquinol by oxidized cytochrome c1.
GO:0005751	mitochondrial respiratory chain complex IV	C	A protein complex located in the mitochondrial inner membrane that forms part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Contains the 13 polypeptide subunits of cytochrome c oxidase, including cytochrome a and cytochrome a3. Catalyzes the oxidation of reduced cytochrome c by dioxygen (O2).
GO:0005753	mitochondrial proton-transporting ATP synthase complex	C	A proton-transporting ATP synthase complex found in the mitochondrial membrane.
GO:0005754	mitochondrial proton-transporting ATP synthase, catalytic core	C	The hexamer, comprising three alpha and three beta subunits, that possesses the catalytic activity of the mitochondrial hydrogen-transporting ATP synthase.
GO:0005756	mitochondrial proton-transporting ATP synthase, central stalk	C	One of two stalks that connect the catalytic core of the hydrogen-transporting ATP synthase to the mitochondrial membrane-associated F0 proteins; rotates within the catalytic core during catalysis.
GO:0005761	mitochondrial ribosome	C	A ribosome found in the mitochondrion of a eukaryotic cell; contains a characteristic set of proteins distinct from those of cytosolic ribosomes.
GO:0005762	mitochondrial large ribosomal subunit	C	The larger of the two subunits of a mitochondrial ribosome. Two sites on the ribosomal large subunit are involved in translation: the aminoacyl site (A site) and peptidyl site (P site).
GO:0005763	mitochondrial small ribosomal subunit	C	The smaller of the two subunits of a mitochondrial ribosome.
GO:0005773	vacuole	C	A closed structure, found only in eukaryotic cells, that is completely surrounded by unit membrane and contains liquid material. Cells contain one or several vacuoles, that may have different functions from each other. Vacuoles have a diverse array of functions. They can act as a storage organelle for nutrients or waste products, as a degradative compartment, as a cost-effective way of increasing cell size, and as a homeostatic regulator controlling both turgor pressure and pH of the cytosol.
GO:0005777	peroxisome	C	A small organelle enclosed by a single membrane, and found in most eukaryotic cells. Contains peroxidases and other enzymes involved in a variety of metabolic processes including free radical detoxification, lipid catabolism and biosynthesis, and hydrogen peroxide metabolism.
GO:0005783	endoplasmic reticulum	C	The irregular network of unit membranes, visible only by electron microscopy, that occurs in the cytoplasm of many eukaryotic cells. The membranes form a complex meshwork of tubular channels, which are often expanded into slitlike cavities called cisternae. The ER takes two forms, rough (or granular), with ribosomes adhering to the outer surface, and smooth (with no ribosomes attached).
GO:0005784	Sec61 translocon complex	C	A translocon complex that contains a core heterotrimer of conserved alpha, beta and gamma subunits, and may contain additional proteins (translocon-associated proteins or TRAPs); in budding yeast the core proteins are Sec61p, Sbh1p, and Sss1p. The Sec61 translocon complex functions in cotranslational and posttranslational translocation events.
GO:0005785	signal recognition particle receptor complex	C	A transmembrane heterodimeric protein located in the membrane of the rough endoplasmic reticulum. Both subunits contain GTPase domains with which signal recognition particle interacts. In the presence of GTP and SRP receptor, SRP is released from the ribosome-nascent chain complex.
GO:0005786	signal recognition particle, endoplasmic reticulum targeting	C	A ribonucleoprotein particle of 325 kDa composed of a 7S (300 nucleotide) RNA molecule and a complex of six different polypeptides. This binds both to the N-terminal signal peptide for proteins destined for the endoplasmic reticulum as they emerge from the large ribosomal subunit and also to the ribosome. This binding arrests further translation thereby preventing the proteins from being released into the cytosol. The SRP-ribosome complex then diffuses to the endoplasmic reticulum where it is bound to the signal recognition particle receptor, which allows resumption of protein synthesis and facilitates the passage of the growing polypeptide chain through the translocon. Through a process involving GTP hydrolysis, the SRP-SRP receptor complex dissociates and SRP returns to the cytosol. Of the six polypeptides of SRP the 54 kDa subunit (SRP54) is the central player. It contains an N-terminal GTPase domain and a C-terminal domain that binds directly to the signal peptide and the SRP RNA. Examples of this component are found in Mus musculus, Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Arabidopsis thaliana.
GO:0005787	signal peptidase complex	C	A protein complex that is located in the endoplasmic reticulum membrane and cleaves the signal sequence from precursor proteins following their transport out of the cytoplasmic space.
GO:0005794	Golgi apparatus	C	A compound membranous cytoplasmic organelle of eukaryotic cells, consisting of flattened, ribosome-free vesicles arranged in a more or less regular stack. The Golgi apparatus differs from the endoplasmic reticulum in often having slightly thicker membranes, appearing in sections as a characteristic shallow semicircle so that the convex side (cis or entry face) abuts the endoplasmic reticulum, secretory vesicles emerging from the concave side (trans or exit face). In vertebrate cells there is usually one such organelle, while in invertebrates and plants, where they are known usually as dictyosomes, there may be several scattered in the cytoplasm. The Golgi apparatus processes proteins produced on the ribosomes of the rough endoplasmic reticulum; such processing includes modification of the core oligosaccharides of glycoproteins, and the sorting and packaging of proteins for transport to a variety of cellular locations. Three different regions of the Golgi are now recognized both in terms of structure and function: cis, in the vicinity of the cis face, trans, in the vicinity of the trans face, and medial, lying between the cis and trans regions.
GO:0005815	microtubule organizing center	C	An intracellular structure that can catalyze gamma-tubulin-dependent microtubule nucleation and that can anchor microtubules by interacting with their minus ends, plus ends or sides.
GO:0005816	spindle pole body	C	The microtubule organizing center in fungi; functionally homologous to the animal cell centrosome.
GO:0005819	spindle	C	The array of microtubules and associated molecules that forms between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during mitosis or meiosis and serves to move the duplicated chromosomes apart.
GO:0005821	intermediate layer of spindle pole body	C	Structure between the central and outer plaques of the spindle pole body.
GO:0005822	inner plaque of spindle pole body	C	One of three laminate structures that form the spindle pole body; the inner plaque is in the nucleus.
GO:0005823	central plaque of spindle pole body	C	One of three laminate structures that form the spindle pole body; the central plaque is embedded in the nuclear envelope.
GO:0005824	outer plaque of spindle pole body	C	One of three laminate structures that form the spindle pole body; the outer plaque is in the cytoplasm.
GO:0005825	half bridge of spindle pole body	C	Structure adjacent to the plaques of the spindle pole body.
GO:0005827	polar microtubule	C	Any of the spindle microtubules that come from each pole and overlap at the spindle midzone. This interdigitating structure consisting of antiparallel microtubules is responsible for pushing the poles of the spindle apart.
GO:0005828	kinetochore microtubule	C	Any of the spindle microtubules that attach to the kinetochores of chromosomes by their plus ends, and maneuver the chromosomes during mitotic or meiotic chromosome segregation.
GO:0005832	chaperonin-containing T-complex	C	A multisubunit ring-shaped complex that mediates protein folding in the cytosol without a cofactor.
GO:0005834	heterotrimeric G-protein complex	C	Any of a family of heterotrimeric GTP-binding and hydrolyzing proteins; they belong to a superfamily of GTPases that includes monomeric proteins such as EF-Tu and RAS. Heterotrimeric G-proteins consist of three subunits; the alpha subunit contains the guanine nucleotide binding site and possesses GTPase activity; the beta and gamma subunits are tightly associated and function as a beta-gamma heterodimer; extrinsic plasma membrane proteins (cytoplasmic face) that function as a complex to transduce signals from G-protein coupled receptors to an effector protein.
GO:0005835	fatty acid synthase complex	C	A multienzyme complex that catalyses the synthesis of fatty acids from acetyl CoA.
GO:0005838	proteasome regulatory particle	C	A multisubunit complex, which caps one or both ends of the proteasome core complex. This complex recognizes and unfolds ubiquitinated proteins, and translocates them to the proteasome core complex.
GO:0005839	proteasome core complex	C	A multisubunit barrel shaped endoprotease complex, which is the core of the proteasome complex.
GO:0005840	ribosome	C	An intracellular organelle, about 200 A in diameter, consisting of RNA and protein. It is the site of protein biosynthesis resulting from translation of messenger RNA (mRNA). It consists of two subunits, one large and one small, each containing only protein and RNA. Both the ribosome and its subunits are characterized by their sedimentation coefficients, expressed in Svedberg units (symbol: S). Hence, the prokaryotic ribosome (70S) comprises a large (50S) subunit and a small (30S) subunit, while the eukaryotic ribosome (80S) comprises a large (60S) subunit and a small (40S) subunit. Two sites on the ribosomal large subunit are involved in translation, namely the aminoacyl site (A site) and peptidyl site (P site). Ribosomes from prokaryotes, eukaryotes, mitochondria, and chloroplasts have characteristically distinct ribosomal proteins.
GO:0005844	polysome	C	Several ribosomes bound to one mRNA.
GO:0005845	mRNA cap binding complex	C	Any protein complex that binds to an mRNA cap at any time in the lifetime of the mRNA.
GO:0005846	nuclear cap binding complex	C	A conserved heterodimeric protein complex that binds to the 5' terminal cap structure m7G(5')ppp(5')N of nascent eukaryotic RNA polymerase II transcripts such as pre-mRNA and U snRNA. The consists of proteins known as CBP20 and CBP80, binds to cap structures in the nucleus, and is involved in pre-mRNA splicing, 3'-end formation, and RNA nuclear export.
GO:0005847	mRNA cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor complex	C	A multisubunit complex that binds to the canonical AAUAAA hexamer and to U-rich upstream sequence elements on the pre-mRNA, thereby stimulating the otherwise weakly active and nonspecific polymerase to elongate efficiently RNAs containing a poly(A) signal.
GO:0005849	mRNA cleavage factor complex	C	Any macromolecular complex involved in cleavage or polyadenylation of mRNA molecules.
GO:0005850	eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 complex	C	Complex of three heterogeneous polypeptide chains, that form a ternary complex with initiator methionyl-tRNA and GTP. This ternary complex binds to free 40S subunit, which subsequently binds the 5' end of mRNA.
GO:0005851	eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2B complex	C	A multisubunit guanine nucleotide exchange factor which catalyzes the exchange of GDP bound to initiation factor eIF2 for GTP, generating active eIF2-GTP. In humans, it is composed of five subunits, alpha, beta, delta, gamma and epsilon.
GO:0005852	eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 complex	C	A complex of several polypeptides that plays at least two important roles in protein synthesis: First, eIF3 binds to the 40S ribosome and facilitates loading of the Met-tRNA/eIF2.GTP ternary complex to form the 43S preinitiation complex. Subsequently, eIF3 apparently assists eIF4 in recruiting mRNAs to the 43S complex. The eIF3 complex contains five conserved core subunits, and may contain several additional proteins; the non-core subunits are thought to mediate association of the complex with specific sets of mRNAs.
GO:0005853	eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 complex	C	A multisubunit nucleotide exchange complex that binds GTP and aminoacyl-tRNAs, and catalyzes their codon-dependent placement at the A-site of the ribosome. In humans, the complex is composed of four subunits, alpha, beta, delta and gamma.
GO:0005854	nascent polypeptide-associated complex	C	A heterodimeric protein complex that can reversibly bind to ribosomes, and is located in direct proximity to newly synthesized polypeptide chains as they emerge from the ribosome.
GO:0005856	cytoskeleton	C	Any of the various filamentous elements that form the internal framework of cells, and typically remain after treatment of the cells with mild detergent to remove membrane constituents and soluble components of the cytoplasm. The term embraces intermediate filaments, microfilaments, microtubules, the microtrabecular lattice, and other structures characterized by a polymeric filamentous nature and long-range order within the cell. The various elements of the cytoskeleton not only serve in the maintenance of cellular shape but also have roles in other cellular functions, including cellular movement, cell division, endocytosis, and movement of organelles.
GO:0005868	cytoplasmic dynein complex	C	Any dynein complex that catalyzes movement along a cytoplasmic microtubule; cytoplasmic dynein complexes participates in many transport activities in eukaryotes, such as mRNA localization, intermediate filament transport, nuclear envelope breakdown, apoptosis, transport of centrosomal proteins, mitotic spindle assembly, virus transport, kinetochore functions, and movement of signaling and spindle checkpoint proteins. Subunits associated with the dynein heavy chain mediate association between dynein heavy chain and cargoes,and may include light chains and light intermediate chains.
GO:0005869	dynactin complex	C	A 20S multiprotein assembly of total mass about 1.2 MDa that activates dynein-based activity in vivo. A large structural component of the complex is an actin-like 40 nm filament composed of actin-related protein, to which other components attach.
GO:0005871	kinesin complex	C	Any complex that includes a dimer of molecules from the kinesin superfamily, a group of related proteins that contain an extended region of predicted alpha-helical coiled coil in the main chain that likely produces dimerization. The native complexes of several kinesin family members have also been shown to contain additional peptides, often designated light chains as all of the noncatalytic subunits that are currently known are smaller than the chain that contains the motor unit. Kinesin complexes generally possess a force-generating enzymatic activity, or motor, which converts the free energy of the gamma phosphate bond of ATP into mechanical work.
GO:0005874	microtubule	C	Any of the long, generally straight, hollow tubes of internal diameter 12-15 nm and external diameter 24 nm found in a wide variety of eukaryotic cells; each consists (usually) of 13 protofilaments of polymeric tubulin, staggered in such a manner that the tubulin monomers are arranged in a helical pattern on the microtubular surface, and with the alpha/beta axes of the tubulin subunits parallel to the long axis of the tubule; exist in equilibrium with pool of tubulin monomers and can be rapidly assembled or disassembled in response to physiological stimuli; concerned with force generation, e.g. in the spindle.
GO:0005876	spindle microtubule	C	Any microtubule that is part of a mitotic or meiotic spindle; anchored at one spindle pole.
GO:0005880	nuclear microtubule	C	Any microtubule in the nucleus of a cell.
GO:0005881	cytoplasmic microtubule	C	Any microtubule in the cytoplasm of a cell.
GO:0005882	intermediate filament	C	A cytoskeletal structure that forms a distinct elongated structure, characteristically 10 nm in diameter, that occurs in the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells. Intermediate filaments form a fibrous system, composed of chemically heterogeneous subunits and involved in mechanically integrating the various components of the cytoplasmic space. Intermediate filaments may be divided into five chemically distinct classes: Type I, acidic keratins; Type II, basic keratins; Type III, including desmin, vimentin and others; Type IV, neurofilaments and related filaments; and Type V, lamins.
GO:0005884	actin filament	C	A filamentous structure formed of a two-stranded helical polymer of the protein actin and associated proteins. Actin filaments are a major component of the contractile apparatus of skeletal muscle and the microfilaments of the cytoskeleton of eukaryotic cells. The filaments, comprising polymerized globular actin molecules, appear as flexible structures with a diameter of 5-9 nm. They are organized into a variety of linear bundles, two-dimensional networks, and three dimensional gels. In the cytoskeleton they are most highly concentrated in the cortex of the cell just beneath the plasma membrane.
GO:0005885	Arp2/3 protein complex	C	A stable protein complex that contains two actin-related proteins, Arp2 and Arp3, and five novel proteins (ARPC1-5), and functions in the nucleation of branched actin filaments.
GO:0005886	plasma membrane	C	The membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment. It consists of a phospholipid bilayer and associated proteins.
GO:0005933	cellular bud	C	A protuberance from a cell of an organism that reproduces by budding, which will grow larger and become a separate daughter cell after nuclear division, cytokinesis, and cell wall formation (when appropriate). The daughter cell may completely separate from the mother cell, or the mother and daughter cells may remain associated.
GO:0005938	cell cortex	C	The region of a cell that lies just beneath the plasma membrane and often, but not always, contains a network of actin filaments and associated proteins.
GO:0005945	6-phosphofructokinase complex	C	A protein complex that possesses 6-phosphofructokinase activity; homodimeric, homooctameric, and allosteric homotetrameric forms are known.
GO:0005946	alpha,alpha-trehalose-phosphate synthase complex (UDP-forming)	C	A protein complex that possesses alpha,alpha-trehalose-phosphate synthase (UDP-forming) and trehalose-phosphatase activities, and thus catalyzes two reactions in trehalose biosynthesis. In the complex identified in Saccharomyces, Tps1p has alpha,alpha-trehalose-phosphate synthase (UDP-forming) activity, Tps2p has trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase activity; Tps3p is a regulatory subunit, and an additional subunit, Tsl1p, may be present.
GO:0005948	acetolactate synthase complex	C	A dimeric (a large and a small chain) or tetrameric (two large and two small chains) enzyme complex. Catalyzes the formation of acetolactate from pyruvate.
GO:0005950	anthranilate synthase complex	C	A heterotetrameric enzyme complex made up of two components I and two components II. Catalyzes the formation of anthranilate, pyruvate and L-glutamate from chorismate and L-glutamine.
GO:0005951	carbamoyl-phosphate synthase complex	C	A protein complex that catalyzes the formation of carbamoyl phosphate; comprises a small subunit that binds and cleaves glutamine, and a large subunit that accepts the ammonia group cleaved from glutamine, binds all of the remaining substrates and effectors, and carries out all of the other catalytic events.
GO:0005952	cAMP-dependent protein kinase complex	C	An enzyme complex, composed of regulatory and catalytic subunits, that catalyzes protein phosphorylation. Inactive forms of the enzyme have two regulatory chains and two catalytic chains; activation by cAMP produces two active catalytic monomers and a regulatory dimer.
GO:0005953	CAAX-protein geranylgeranyltransferase complex	C	A heterodimeric enzyme, composed of an alpha and a beta subunit. Participates in the post-translational C-terminal modification of several small GTPases, allowing their targeting to the membrane.
GO:0005955	calcineurin complex	C	A heterodimeric calcium ion and calmodulin dependent protein phosphatase composed of catalytic and regulatory subunits; the regulatory subunit is very similar in sequence to calmodulin.
GO:0005956	protein kinase CK2 complex	C	A protein complex that possesses protein serine/threonine kinase activity, and contains two catalytic alpha subunits and two regulatory beta subunits. Protein kinase CK2 complexes are found in nearly every subcellular compartment, and can phosphorylate many protein substrates in addition to casein.
GO:0005960	glycine cleavage complex	C	A protein complex that catalyzes the reversible oxidation of glycine. In E. coli, it has four components: dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase, glycine dehydrogenase (decarboxylating), lipoyl-GcvH-protein and aminomethyltransferase, also known as L, P, H, and T.
GO:0005962	mitochondrial isocitrate dehydrogenase complex (NAD+)	C	Mitochondrial complex that possesses isocitrate dehydrogenase (NAD+) activity.
GO:0005965	protein farnesyltransferase complex	C	A protein complex that possesses protein farnesyltransferase activity.
GO:0005967	mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase complex	C	Complex that carries out the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate to form acetyl-CoA in eukaryotes; includes subunits possessing three catalytic activities: pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1), dihydrolipoamide S-acetyltransferase (E2), and dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (E3). The This Eukaryotic form usually contains more subunits than its bacterial counterpart; for example, one known complex contains 30 E1 dimers, 60 E2 monomers, and 6 E3 dimers as well as a few copies of pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase and pyruvate dehydrogenase phosphatase.
GO:0005968	Rab-protein geranylgeranyltransferase complex	C	A heterodimeric enzyme complex, which in mammals is composed of an alpha and a beta subunit, and which associates with an accessory protein Rep (Rab escort protein). Catalyzes of the transfer of a geranyl-geranyl group from geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate to a Rab protein.
GO:0005971	ribonucleoside-diphosphate reductase complex	C	An enzyme complex composed of 2-4 or more subunits, which usually contains nonheme iron and requires ATP for catalysis. Catalyzes the formation of 2'-deoxyribonucleoside diphosphate from ribonucleoside diphosphate, using either thioredoxin disulfide or glutaredoxin disulfide as an acceptor.
GO:0005975	carbohydrate metabolic process	P	The chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates, any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula Cx(H2O)y. Includes the formation of carbohydrate derivatives by the addition of a carbohydrate residue to another molecule.
GO:0006091	generation of precursor metabolites and energy	P	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites, substances from which energy is derived, and any process involved in the liberation of energy from these substances.
GO:0006260	DNA replication	P	The cellular metabolic process in which a cell duplicates one or more molecules of DNA. DNA replication begins when specific sequences, known as origins of replication, are recognized and bound by initiation proteins, and ends when the original DNA molecule has been completely duplicated and the copies topologically separated. The unit of replication usually corresponds to the genome of the cell, an organelle, or a virus. The template for replication can either be an existing DNA molecule or RNA.
GO:0006281	DNA repair	P	The process of restoring DNA after damage. Genomes are subject to damage by chemical and physical agents in the environment (e.g. UV and ionizing radiations, chemical mutagens, fungal and bacterial toxins, etc.) and by free radicals or alkylating agents endogenously generated in metabolism. DNA is also damaged because of errors during its replication. A variety of different DNA repair pathways have been reported that include direct reversal, base excision repair, nucleotide excision repair, photoreactivation, bypass, double-strand break repair pathway, and mismatch repair pathway.
GO:0006310	DNA recombination	P	Any process in which a new genotype is formed by reassortment of genes resulting in gene combinations different from those that were present in the parents. In eukaryotes genetic recombination can occur by chromosome assortment, intrachromosomal recombination, or nonreciprocal interchromosomal recombination. Intrachromosomal recombination occurs by crossing over. In bacteria it may occur by genetic transformation, conjugation, transduction, or F-duction.
GO:0006325	chromatin organization	P	Any process that results in the specification, formation or maintenance of the physical structure of eukaryotic chromatin.
GO:0006352	DNA-templated transcription, initiation	P	Any process involved in the assembly of the RNA polymerase preinitiation complex (PIC) at the core promoter region of a DNA template, resulting in the subsequent synthesis of RNA from that promoter. The initiation phase includes PIC assembly and the formation of the first few bonds in the RNA chain, including abortive initiation, which occurs when the first few nucleotides are repeatedly synthesized and then released. The initiation phase ends just before and does not include promoter clearance, or release, which is the transition between the initiation and elongation phases of transcription.
GO:0006353	DNA-templated transcription, termination	P	The cellular process that completes DNA-templated transcription; the formation of phosphodiester bonds ceases, the RNA-DNA hybrid dissociates, and RNA polymerase releases the DNA.
GO:0006354	DNA-templated transcription, elongation	P	The extension of an RNA molecule after transcription initiation and promoter clearance at a DNA-dependent RNA polymerase promoter by the addition of ribonucleotides catalyzed by an RNA polymerase.
GO:0006360	transcription from RNA polymerase I promoter	P	The synthesis of RNA from a DNA template by RNA polymerase I (RNAP I), originating at an RNAP I promoter.
GO:0006364	rRNA processing	P	Any process involved in the conversion of a primary ribosomal RNA (rRNA) transcript into one or more mature rRNA molecules.
GO:0006366	transcription from RNA polymerase II promoter	P	The synthesis of RNA from a DNA template by RNA polymerase II, originating at an RNA polymerase II promoter. Includes transcription of messenger RNA (mRNA) and certain small nuclear RNAs (snRNAs).
GO:0006383	transcription from RNA polymerase III promoter	P	The synthesis of RNA from a DNA template by RNA polymerase III, originating at an RNAP III promoter.
GO:0006397	mRNA processing	P	Any process involved in the conversion of a primary mRNA transcript into one or more mature mRNA(s) prior to translation into polypeptide.
GO:0006401	RNA catabolic process	P	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of RNA, ribonucleic acid, one of the two main type of nucleic acid, consisting of a long, unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3',5'-phosphodiester linkage.
GO:0006413	translational initiation	P	The process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein. This includes the formation of a complex of the ribosome, mRNA, and an initiation complex that contains the first aminoacyl-tRNA.
GO:0006414	translational elongation	P	The successive addition of amino acid residues to a nascent polypeptide chain during protein biosynthesis.
GO:0006417	regulation of translation	P	Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mRNA.
GO:0006418	tRNA aminoacylation for protein translation	P	The synthesis of aminoacyl tRNA by the formation of an ester bond between the 3'-hydroxyl group of the most 3' adenosine of the tRNA, to be used in ribosome-mediated polypeptide synthesis.
GO:0006457	protein folding	P	The process of assisting in the covalent and noncovalent assembly of single chain polypeptides or multisubunit complexes into the correct tertiary structure.
GO:0006468	protein phosphorylation	P	The process of introducing a phosphate group on to a protein.
GO:0006470	protein dephosphorylation	P	The process of removing one or more phosphoric residues from a protein.
GO:0006486	protein glycosylation	P	A protein modification process that results in the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid, e.g. the addition of glycan chains to proteins.
GO:0006497	protein lipidation	P	The covalent attachment of lipid groups to an amino acid in a protein.
GO:0006520	cellular amino acid metabolic process	P	The chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids, carboxylic acids containing one or more amino groups, as carried out by individual cells.
GO:0006605	protein targeting	P	The process of targeting specific proteins to particular membrane-bounded subcellular organelles. Usually requires an organelle specific protein sequence motif.
GO:0006629	lipid metabolic process	P	The chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids, compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not, or sparingly, in an aqueous solvent. Includes fatty acids; neutral fats, other fatty-acid esters, and soaps; long-chain (fatty) alcohols and waxes; sphingoids and other long-chain bases; glycolipids, phospholipids and sphingolipids; and carotenes, polyprenols, sterols, terpenes and other isoprenoids.
GO:0006766	vitamin metabolic process	P	The chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamins. Vitamin is a general term for a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body. Vitamins may be water-soluble or fat-soluble and usually serve as components of coenzyme systems.
GO:0006811	ion transport	P	The directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0006865	amino acid transport	P	The directed movement of amino acids, organic acids containing one or more amino substituents, into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0006869	lipid transport	P	The directed movement of lipids into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore. Lipids are compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not, or sparingly, in an aqueous solvent.
GO:0006873	cellular ion homeostasis	P	Any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of ions at the level of a cell.
GO:0006887	exocytosis	P	A process of secretion by a cell that results in the release of intracellular molecules (e.g. hormones, matrix proteins) contained within a membrane-bounded vesicle by fusion of the vesicle with the plasma membrane of a cell. This is the process in which most molecules are secreted from eukaryotic cells.
GO:0006897	endocytosis	P	A vesicle-mediated transport process in which cells take up external materials or membrane constituents by the invagination of a small region of the plasma membrane to form a new membrane-bounded vesicle.
GO:0006970	response to osmotic stress	P	Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus indicating an increase or decrease in the concentration of solutes outside the organism or cell.
GO:0006974	cellular response to DNA damage stimulus	P	Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus indicating damage to its DNA from environmental insults or errors during metabolism.
GO:0006979	response to oxidative stress	P	Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of oxidative stress, a state often resulting from exposure to high levels of reactive oxygen species, e.g. superoxide anions, hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), and hydroxyl radicals.
GO:0006997	nucleus organization	P	A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of the nucleus.
GO:0007005	mitochondrion organization	P	A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a mitochondrion; includes mitochondrial morphogenesis and distribution, and replication of the mitochondrial genome as well as synthesis of new mitochondrial components.
GO:0007010	cytoskeleton organization	P	A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures.
GO:0007031	peroxisome organization	P	A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a peroxisome. A peroxisome is a small, membrane-bounded organelle that uses dioxygen (O2) to oxidize organic molecules.
GO:0007033	vacuole organization	P	A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a vacuole.
GO:0007059	chromosome segregation	P	The process in which genetic material, in the form of chromosomes, is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets. In eukaryotes, chromosome segregation begins with the condensation of chromosomes, includes chromosome separation, and ends when chromosomes have completed movement to the spindle poles.
GO:0007114	cell budding	P	A form of asexual reproduction, occurring in certain bacteria and fungi (e.g. yeasts) and some primitive animals in which an individual arises from a daughter cell formed by pinching off a part of the parent cell. The budlike outgrowths so formed may sometimes remain attached to the parent cell.
GO:0007124	pseudohyphal growth	P	A pattern of cell growth that occurs in conditions of nitrogen limitation and abundant fermentable carbon source. Cells become elongated, switch to a unipolar budding pattern, remain physically attached to each other, and invade the growth substrate.
GO:0008023	transcription elongation factor complex	C	Any protein complex that interacts with RNA polymerase II to increase (positive transcription elongation factor) or reduce (negative transcription elongation factor) the rate of transcription elongation.
GO:0008033	tRNA processing	P	The process in which a pre-tRNA molecule is converted to a mature tRNA, ready for addition of an aminoacyl group.
GO:0008092	cytoskeletal protein binding	F	Interacting selectively and non-covalently with any protein component of any cytoskeleton (actin, microtubule, or intermediate filament cytoskeleton).
GO:0008134	transcription factor binding	F	Interacting selectively and non-covalently with a transcription factor, any protein required to initiate or regulate transcription.
GO:0008135	translation factor activity, nucleic acid binding	F	Functions during translation by interacting selectively and non-covalently with nucleic acids during polypeptide synthesis at the ribosome.
GO:0008150	biological_process	P	Any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells, tissues, organs, and organisms. A process is a collection of molecular events with a defined beginning and end.
GO:0008168	methyltransferase activity	F	Catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group to an acceptor molecule.
GO:0008180	COP9 signalosome	C	A protein complex that catalyzes the deneddylation of proteins, including the cullin component of SCF ubiquitin E3 ligase; deneddylation increases the activity of cullin family ubiquitin ligases. The signalosome is involved in many regulatory process, including some which control development, in many species; also regulates photomorphogenesis in plants; in many species its subunits are highly similar to those of the proteasome.
GO:0008213	protein alkylation	P	The addition of an alkyl group to a protein amino acid. An alkyl group is any group derived from an alkane by removal of one hydrogen atom.
GO:0008233	peptidase activity	F	Catalysis of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond. A peptide bond is a covalent bond formed when the carbon atom from the carboxyl group of one amino acid shares electrons with the nitrogen atom from the amino group of a second amino acid.
GO:0008250	oligosaccharyltransferase complex	C	A protein complex that is found in the endoplasmic reticulum membrane of eukaryotes and transfers lipid-linked oligosaccharide precursor to asparagine residues on nascent proteins. In yeast, the complex includes at least nine different subunits, whereas in mammalian cells at least three different forms of the complex have been detected.
GO:0008289	lipid binding	F	Interacting selectively and non-covalently with a lipid.
GO:0008290	F-actin capping protein complex	C	A heterodimer consisting of alpha and beta subunits that binds to and caps the barbed ends of actin filaments, thereby regulating the polymerization of actin monomers but not severing actin filaments.
GO:0008380	RNA splicing	P	The process of removing sections of the primary RNA transcript to remove sequences not present in the mature form of the RNA and joining the remaining sections to form the mature form of the RNA.
GO:0008540	proteasome regulatory particle, base subcomplex	C	The subcomplex of the proteasome regulatory particle that directly associates with the proteasome core complex.
GO:0008541	proteasome regulatory particle, lid subcomplex	C	The subcomplex of the proteasome regulatory particle that forms the peripheral lid, which is added on top of the base subcomplex.
GO:0008565	protein transporter activity	F	Enables the directed movement of proteins into, out of or within a cell, or between cells.
GO:0008622	epsilon DNA polymerase complex	C	A heterotetrameric DNA polymerase complex that catalyzes processive DNA synthesis in the absence of PCNA, but is further stimulated in the presence of PCNA. The complex contains a large catalytic subunit and three small subunits, and is best characterized in Saccharomyces, in which the subunits are named Pol2p, Dpb2p, Dpb3p, and Dpb4p. Some evidence suggests that DNA polymerase epsilon is the leading strand polymerase; it is also involved in nucleotide-excision repair and mismatch repair.
GO:0008623	CHRAC	C	An ISWI complex that contains an ATPase subunit of the ISWI family (SNF2H in mammals, Isw2 in S. cerevisiae), an ACF1 homolog, and additional small histone fold subunits (generally two of these, but Xenopus has only one and some additional non-conserved subunits). CHRAC plays roles in the regulation of RNA polymerase II transcription and in DNA replication and repair.
GO:0008643	carbohydrate transport	P	The directed movement of carbohydrate into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore. Carbohydrates are any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula Cx(H2O)y.
GO:0009311	oligosaccharide metabolic process	P	The chemical reactions and pathways involving oligosaccharides, molecules with between two and (about) 20 monosaccharide residues connected by glycosidic linkages.
GO:0009328	phenylalanine-tRNA ligase complex	C	An enzyme complex that catalyzes the ligation of phenylalanine to tRNA(Phe), forming L-phenylalanyl-tRNA(Phe).
GO:0009337	sulfite reductase complex (NADPH)	C	A multisubunit iron flavoprotein, which in yeast is composed of 2 alpha and 2 beta subunits. Catalyzes the reduction of sulfite to sulfide.
GO:0009353	mitochondrial oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex	C	A complex of multiple copies of three enzymatic components: oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (lipoamide); EC:1.2.4.2 (E1), dihydrolipoamide S-succinyltransferase; EC:2.3.1.61 (E2) and dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase; EC:1.8.1.4 (E3); catalyzes the overall conversion of 2-oxoglutarate to succinyl-CoA and carbon dioxide (CO2) within the mitochondrial matrix. An example of this complex is found in Mus musculus.
GO:0009408	response to heat	P	Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a heat stimulus, a temperature stimulus above the optimal temperature for that organism.
GO:0009451	RNA modification	P	The covalent alteration of one or more nucleotides within an RNA molecule to produce an RNA molecule with a sequence that differs from that coded genetically.
GO:0010324	membrane invagination	P	The infolding of a membrane, resulting in formation of a vesicle.
GO:0010494	cytoplasmic stress granule	C	A dense aggregation in the cytosol composed of proteins and RNAs that appear when the cell is under stress.
GO:0012505	endomembrane system	C	A collection of membranous structures involved in transport within the cell. The main components of the endomembrane system are endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi bodies, vesicles, cell membrane and nuclear envelope. Members of the endomembrane system pass materials through each other or though the use of vesicles.
GO:0015931	nucleobase-containing compound transport	P	The directed movement of nucleobases, nucleosides, nucleotides and nucleic acids, into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0015934	large ribosomal subunit	C	The larger of the two subunits of a ribosome. Two sites on the ribosomal large subunit are involved in translation, namely the aminoacyl site (A site) and peptidyl site (P site).
GO:0016020	membrane	C	Double layer of lipid molecules that encloses all cells, and, in eukaryotes, many organelles; may be a single or double lipid bilayer; also includes associated proteins.
GO:0016023	cytoplasmic membrane-bounded vesicle	C	A membrane-bounded vesicle found in the cytoplasm of the cell.
GO:0016035	zeta DNA polymerase complex	C	A heterodimeric DNA polymerase complex that catalyzes error-prone DNA synthesis in contexts such as translesion synthesis and double-stranded break repair. First characterized in Saccharomyces, in which the subunits are Rev3p and Rev7p; a third protein, Rev1p, is often associated with the polymerase dimer.
GO:0016050	vesicle organization	P	A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a vesicle.
GO:0016197	endosomal transport	P	The directed movement of substances into, out of or mediated by an endosome, a membrane-bounded organelle that carries materials newly ingested by endocytosis. It passes many of the materials to lysosomes for degradation.
GO:0016272	prefoldin complex	C	A multisubunit chaperone that is capable of delivering unfolded proteins to cytosolic chaperonin, which it acts as a cofactor for. In humans, the complex is a heterohexamer of two PFD-alpha and four PFD-beta type subunits. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, it also acts in the nucleus to regulate the rate of elongation by RNA polymerase II via a direct effect on histone dynamics.
GO:0016281	eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4F complex	C	The eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4F complex is composed of eIF4E, eIF4A and eIF4G; it is involved in the recognition of the mRNA cap, ATP-dependent unwinding of the 5'-terminal secondary structure and recruitment of the mRNA to the ribosome.
GO:0016282	eukaryotic 43S preinitiation complex	C	A protein complex composed of the 40S ribosomal subunit plus eIF1A, eIF3, and eIF2-GTP-bound methionyl-initiator methionine tRNA.
GO:0016301	kinase activity	F	Catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group, usually from ATP, to a substrate molecule.
GO:0016460	myosin II complex	C	A myosin complex containing two class II myosin heavy chains, two myosin essential light chains and two myosin regulatory light chains. Also known as classical myosin or conventional myosin, the myosin II class includes the major muscle myosin of vertebrate and invertebrate muscle, and is characterized by alpha-helical coiled coil tails that self assemble to form a variety of filament structures.
GO:0016491	oxidoreductase activity	F	Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction, a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered. One substrate acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and becomes oxidized, while the other acts as hydrogen or electron acceptor and becomes reduced.
GO:0016514	SWI/SNF complex	C	A SWI/SNF-type complex that contains nine or more proteins, including both conserved (core) and nonconserved components; the Swi2/Snf2 ATPase is one of the core components.
GO:0016570	histone modification	P	The covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a histone protein.
GO:0016586	RSC complex	C	A protein complex similar to, but more abundant than, the Swi/Snf complex. The RSC complex is generally recruited to RNA polymerase III promoters and is specifically recruited to RNA polymerase II promoters by transcriptional activators and repressors; it is also involved in non-homologous end joining.
GO:0016587	Isw1 complex	C	A protein complex that contains an Isw1 subunit from the ISWI-family of ATPases and acts to modify chromatin structure.
GO:0016591	DNA-directed RNA polymerase II, holoenzyme	C	Large protein complex composed of the RNA polymerase core complex and a variety of other proteins including transcription factor complexes TFIIA, D, E, F, and H which are required for promoter recognition, and the Mediator subcomplex. Catalyzes the synthesis of eukaryotic pre-mRNA.
GO:0016592	mediator complex	C	A protein complex that interacts with the carboxy-terminal domain of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II and plays an active role in transducing the signal from a transcription factor to the transcriptional machinery. The mediator complex is required for activation of transcription of most protein-coding genes, but can also act as a transcriptional corepressor. The Saccharomyces complex contains several identifiable subcomplexes: a head domain comprising Srb2, -4, and -5, Med6, -8, and -11, and Rox3 proteins; a middle domain comprising Med1, -4, and -7, Nut1 and -2, Cse2, Rgr1, Soh1, and Srb7 proteins; a tail consisting of Gal11p, Med2p, Pgd1p, and Sin4p; and a regulatory subcomplex comprising Ssn2, -3, and -8, and Srb8 proteins. Metazoan mediator complexes have similar modular structures and include homologs of yeast Srb and Med proteins.
GO:0016593	Cdc73/Paf1 complex	C	A multiprotein complex that associates with RNA polymerase II and general RNA polymerase II transcription factor complexes and may be involved in both transcriptional initiation and elongation. In Saccharomyces the complex contains Paf1p, Cdc73p, Ctr9p, Rtf1p, and Leo1p.
GO:0016602	CCAAT-binding factor complex	C	A heteromeric transcription factor complex that binds to the CCAAT-box upstream of promoters; in Saccharomyces it activates the transcription of genes in response to growth in a nonfermentable carbon source; consists of four known subunits: HAP2, HAP3, HAP4 and HAP5.
GO:0016740	transferase activity	F	Catalysis of the transfer of a group, e.g. a methyl group, glycosyl group, acyl group, phosphorus-containing, or other groups, from one compound (generally regarded as the donor) to another compound (generally regarded as the acceptor). Transferase is the systematic name for any enzyme of EC class 2.
GO:0016757	transferase activity, transferring glycosyl groups	F	Catalysis of the transfer of a glycosyl group from one compound (donor) to another (acceptor).
GO:0016779	nucleotidyltransferase activity	F	Catalysis of the transfer of a nucleotidyl group to a reactant.
GO:0016787	hydrolase activity	F	Catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds, e.g. C-O, C-N, C-C, phosphoric anhydride bonds, etc. Hydrolase is the systematic name for any enzyme of EC class 3.
GO:0016791	phosphatase activity	F	Catalysis of the hydrolysis of phosphoric monoesters, releasing inorganic phosphate.
GO:0016798	hydrolase activity, acting on glycosyl bonds	F	Catalysis of the hydrolysis of any glycosyl bond.
GO:0016829	lyase activity	F	Catalysis of the cleavage of C-C, C-O, C-N and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation, or conversely adding a group to a double bond. They differ from other enzymes in that two substrates are involved in one reaction direction, but only one in the other direction. When acting on the single substrate, a molecule is eliminated and this generates either a new double bond or a new ring.
GO:0016853	isomerase activity	F	Catalysis of the geometric or structural changes within one molecule. Isomerase is the systematic name for any enzyme of EC class 5.
GO:0016874	ligase activity	F	Catalysis of the joining of two substances, or two groups within a single molecule, with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in ATP or a similar triphosphate.
GO:0016887	ATPase activity	F	Catalysis of the reaction: ATP + H2O = ADP + phosphate + 2 H+. May or may not be coupled to another reaction.
GO:0017053	transcriptional repressor complex	C	A protein complex that possesses activity that prevents or downregulates transcription.
GO:0017054	negative cofactor 2 complex	C	A heterodimeric protein complex that can stably associate with TATA-binding protein on promoters, thereby preventing the assembly of transcription factors TFIIA and TFIIB and leading to repression of RNA polymerase II transcription. The two subunits, NC2alpha (Drap1) and NC2beta (Dr1), dimerize through histone fold domains of the H2A/H2B type present in the amino termini.
GO:0017059	serine C-palmitoyltransferase complex	C	An enzyme complex that catalyzes the transfer of a palmitoyl on to serine, forming 3-dehydro-D-sphinganine.
GO:0017087	mitochondrial processing peptidase complex	C	A protein complex that consists of a catalytic alpha subunit (alpha-MPP) and a regulatory beta subunit (beta-MPP), and catalyzes the release of N-terminal targeting peptides from precursor proteins imported into the mitochondrion.
GO:0017102	methionyl glutamyl tRNA synthetase complex	C	A complex consisting of methionyl- and glutamyl-tRNA synthetases. The tRNA synthetases present in the complex bind to their cognate tRNAs more efficiently than they do as monomers.
GO:0017119	Golgi transport complex	C	A complex of proteins that, in vitro, stimulates intra-Golgi transport; a 13S complex, about 800 kDa in size and consists of at least five polypeptides. In yeast, this complex is called the Sec34/35 complex and is composed of eight subunits (Sec34p, Sec35p, Dor1p, Cod1p, Cod2p, Cod3p, Cod4p, and Cod5p).
GO:0017177	glucosidase II complex	C	A heterodimeric complex that catalyzes the trimming of glucose residues from N-linked core glycans on newly synthesized glycoproteins.
GO:0018193	peptidyl-amino acid modification	P	The alteration of an amino acid residue in a peptide.
GO:0018444	translation release factor complex	C	A heterodimeric complex involved in the release of a nascent polypeptide chain from a ribosome.
GO:0019005	SCF ubiquitin ligase complex	C	A ubiquitin ligase complex in which a cullin from the Cul1 subfamily and a RING domain protein form the catalytic core; substrate specificity is conferred by a Skp1 adaptor and an F-box protein. SCF complexes are involved in targeting proteins for degradation by the proteasome. The best characterized complexes are those from yeast and mammals (with core subunits named Cdc53/Cul1, Rbx1/Hrt1/Roc1).
GO:0019773	proteasome core complex, alpha-subunit complex	C	The proteasome core subcomplex that constitutes the two outer rings of the proteasome core complex. An example of this component is found in Mus musculus.
GO:0019774	proteasome core complex, beta-subunit complex	C	The proteasome core subcomplex that constitutes the two inner rings of the proteasome core complex. An example of this component is found in Mus musculus.
GO:0019843	rRNA binding	F	Interacting selectively and non-covalently with ribosomal RNA.
GO:0019899	enzyme binding	F	Interacting selectively and non-covalently with any enzyme.
GO:0022625	cytosolic large ribosomal subunit	C	The large subunit of a ribosome located in the cytosol.
GO:0022626	cytosolic ribosome	C	A ribosome located in the cytosol.
GO:0022627	cytosolic small ribosomal subunit	C	The small subunit of a ribosome located in the cytosol.
GO:0022857	transmembrane transporter activity	F	Enables the transfer of a substance from one side of a membrane to the other.
GO:0023052	signaling	P	The entirety of a process in which information is transmitted within a biological system. This process begins with an active signal and ends when a cellular response has been triggered.
GO:0030008	TRAPP complex	C	A large complex that acts as a tethering factor involved in transporting vesicles from the ER through the Golgi to the plasma membrane. A TRAPP (transport protein particle) complex has a core set of proteins which are joined by specific subunits depending on the cellular component where a given TRAPP complex is active.
GO:0030014	CCR4-NOT complex	C	The evolutionarily conserved CCR4-NOT complex is involved in several aspects of mRNA metabolism, including repression and activation of mRNA initiation, control of mRNA elongation, and the deadenylation and subsequent degradation of mRNA. In Saccharomyces the CCR4-NOT complex comprises a core complex of 9 proteins (Ccr4p, Caf1p, Caf40p, Caf130p, Not1p, Not2p, Not3p, Not4p, and Not5p), Caf4p, Caf16p, and several less well characterized proteins.
GO:0030015	CCR4-NOT core complex	C	The core of the CCR4-NOT complex. In Saccharomyces the CCR4-NOT core complex comprises Ccr4p, Caf1p, Caf40p, Caf130p, Not1p, Not2p, Not3p, Not4p, and Not5p.
GO:0030120	vesicle coat	C	A membrane coat found on a coated vesicle.
GO:0030121	AP-1 adaptor complex	C	A heterotetrameric AP-type membrane coat adaptor complex that consists of beta1, gamma, mu1 and sigma1 subunits and links clathrin to the membrane surface of a vesicle; vesicles with AP-1-containing coats are normally found primarily in the trans-Golgi network. In at least humans, the AP-1 complex can be heterogeneric due to the existence of multiple subunit isoforms encoded by different genes (gamma1 and gamma2, mu1A and mu1B, and sigma1A, sigma1B and sigma1C).
GO:0030122	AP-2 adaptor complex	C	A heterotetrameric AP-type membrane coat adaptor complex that consists of alpha, beta2, mu2 and sigma2 subunits, and links clathrin to the membrane surface of a vesicle; vesicles with AP-2-containing coats are normally found primarily near the plasma membrane, on endocytic vesicles. In at least humans, the AP-2 complex can be heterogeneric due to the existence of multiple subunit isoforms encoded by different alpha genes (alphaA and alphaC).
GO:0030123	AP-3 adaptor complex	C	A heterotetrameric AP-type membrane coat adaptor complex that consists of beta3, delta, mu3 and sigma3 subunits and is found associated with endosomal membranes. AP-3 does not appear to associate with clathrin in all organisms. In at least humans, the AP-3 complex can be heterogeneric due to the existence of multiple subunit isoforms encoded by different genes (beta3A and beta3B, mu3A and mu3B, and sigma3A and sigma3B).
GO:0030125	clathrin vesicle coat	C	A clathrin coat found on a vesicle.
GO:0030126	COPI vesicle coat	C	One of two multimeric complexes that forms a membrane vesicle coat. The mammalian COPI subunits are called alpha-, beta-, beta'-, gamma-, delta-, epsilon- and zeta-COP. Vesicles with COPI coats are found associated with Golgi membranes at steady state.
GO:0030127	COPII vesicle coat	C	One of two multimeric complexes that forms a membrane vesicle coat. COPII is best characterized in S. cerevisiae, where the subunits are called Sar1p, Sec13p, Sec31p, Sec23p, and Sec24p. Vesicles with COPII coats are found associated with endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membranes at steady state.
GO:0030234	enzyme regulator activity	F	Binds to and modulates the activity of an enzyme.
GO:0030289	protein phosphatase 4 complex	C	The complex formed by the catalytic subunit of protein phosphatase 4 plus a regulatory subunit.
GO:0030427	site of polarized growth	C	Any part of a cell where non-isotropic growth takes place.
GO:0030529	ribonucleoprotein complex	C	A macromolecular complex containing both protein and RNA molecules.
GO:0030532	small nuclear ribonucleoprotein complex	C	A complex composed of RNA of the small nuclear RNA (snRNA) class and protein, found in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell. These are typically named after the snRNA(s) they contain, e.g. U1 snRNP or U4/U6 snRNP. Many, but not all, of these complexes are involved in splicing of nuclear mRNAs.
GO:0030674	protein binding, bridging	F	The binding activity of a molecule that brings together two or more protein molecules, or a protein and another macromolecule or complex, through a selective, non-covalent, often stoichiometric interaction, permitting those molecules to function in a coordinated way.
GO:0030678	mitochondrial ribonuclease P complex	C	A ribonuclease P complex located in the mitochondrion of a eukaryotic cell, where it catalyzes the 5' endonucleolytic cleavage of precursor tRNAs to yield mature tRNAs. The subunit composition of mitochondrial ribonuclease P complexes varies between species, but the complex often contains a single RNA molecule and a single protein molecule.
GO:0030684	preribosome	C	Any complex of pre-rRNAs, ribosomal proteins, and associated proteins formed during ribosome biogenesis.
GO:0030686	90S preribosome	C	A large ribonucleoprotein complex considered to be the earliest preribosomal complex. In S. cerevisiae, it has a size of 90S and consists of the 35S pre-rRNA, early-associating ribosomal proteins most of which are part of the small ribosomal subunit, the U3 snoRNA and associated proteins.
GO:0030687	preribosome, large subunit precursor	C	A preribosomal complex consisting of 27SA, 27SB, and/or 7S pre-rRNA, 5S rRNA, ribosomal proteins including late-associating large subunit proteins, and associated proteins; a precursor of the eukaryotic cytoplasmic large ribosomal subunit.
GO:0030688	preribosome, small subunit precursor	C	A preribosomal complex consisting of 20S pre-rRNA, ribosomal proteins including late-associating small subunit proteins, and associated proteins; a precursor of the eukaryotic cytoplasmic small ribosomal subunit.
GO:0030690	Noc1p-Noc2p complex	C	A heterodimer associated with 90S and 66S preribosomes. Predominantly, but not exclusively, nucleolar; involved in ribosomal large subunit biogenesis.
GO:0030691	Noc2p-Noc3p complex	C	A heterodimer associated with 66S preribosomes; predominantly nucleoplasmic, but also locates to the nucleolus; involved in ribosomal large subunit biogenesis.
GO:0030692	Noc4p-Nop14p complex	C	A heterodimer associated with precursors of the eukaryotic small ribosomal subunit, including the 90S preribosome; involved in small subunit biogenesis.
GO:0030869	RENT complex	C	A protein complex that mediates transcriptional silencing at the rDNA locus (the name derives from regulator of nucleolar silencing and telophase). In Saccharomyces the complex contains Net1p, Sir2p, Cdc14p, and at least one more subunit.
GO:0030870	Mre11 complex	C	Trimeric protein complex that possesses endonuclease activity; involved in meiotic recombination, DNA repair and checkpoint signaling. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the complex comprises Mre11p, Rad50p, and Xrs2p; complexes identified in other species generally contain proteins orthologous to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins.
GO:0030896	checkpoint clamp complex	C	Conserved heterotrimeric complex of PCNA-like proteins that is loaded onto DNA at sites of DNA damage.
GO:0030897	HOPS complex	C	A multimeric protein complex that associates with the vacuolar membrane, late endosomal (multivesicular body) and lysosomal membranes. HOPS is a tethering complex involved in vesicle fusion.
GO:0030904	retromer complex	C	A conserved multimeric membrane-associated complex involved in retrograde transport from endosomes to the Golgi apparatus. For example, the budding yeast retromer comprises Vps35p, Vps29p, Vps26p, Vps5p, and Vps17p.
GO:0030905	retromer complex, outer shell	C	One of two subcomplexes that combine to form the retromer, believed to be peripherally associated with the membrane. The budding yeast complex comprises Vps5p and Vps17p, and may contain multiple copies of a Vps5p/Vps17p dimer.
GO:0030906	retromer complex, inner shell	C	One of two subcomplexes that combine to form the retromer, believed to be closely associated with the membrane. In budding yeast the complex comprises Vps35p, Vps29p, and Vps26p.
GO:0030907	MBF transcription complex	C	A protein complex that binds to the Mlu1 cell cycle box (MCB) promoter element, consensus sequence ACGCGN, and is involved in regulation of transcription during the G1/S transition of the cell cycle. In Saccharomyces, the complex contains a heterodimer of the DNA binding protein Mbp1p and the activator Swi4p, and is associated with additional proteins known as Nrm1p, Msa1p, and Msa2p; in Schizosaccharomyces the complex contains Res1p, Res2p, and Cdc10p.
GO:0030915	Smc5-Smc6 complex	C	A conserved complex that contains a heterodimer of SMC proteins (Smc5p and Smc6p, or homologs thereof) and several other proteins, and is involved in DNA repair and maintaining cell cycle arrest following DNA damage. In S. cerevisiae, this is an octameric complex called Mms21-Smc5-Smc6 complex, with at least five of its subunits conserved in fission yeast and humans.
GO:0030956	glutamyl-tRNA(Gln) amidotransferase complex	C	A protein complex that possesses glutamyl-tRNA(Gln) amidotransferase activity, and therefore creates Gln-tRNA by amidating Glu-tRNA; usually composed of 3 subunits: A, B, and C. Note that the C subunit may not be required in all organisms.
GO:0031011	Ino80 complex	C	A multisubunit protein complex that contains the Ino80p ATPase; exhibits chromatin remodeling activity and 3' to 5' DNA helicase activity.
GO:0031080	nuclear pore outer ring	C	A subcomplex of the nuclear pore complex (NPC) that forms the outer rings of the core scaffold, a lattice-like structure that gives the NPC its shape and strength. In S. cerevisiae, the two outer rings each contain multiple copies of the following proteins: Nup133p, Nup120p, Nup145Cp, Nup85p, Nup84p, Seh1p, and Sec13p. In vertebrates, the two outer rings each contain multiple copies of the following proteins: Nup133, Nup160, Nup96, Nup75, Nup107, Seh1, Sec13, Nup43, Nup37, and ALADIN. Components are arranged in 8-fold symmetrical 'spokes' around the central transport channel. A single 'spoke', can be isolated and is sometimes referred to as the Nup84 complex (S. cerevisiae) or the Nup107-160 complex (vertebrates).
GO:0031083	BLOC-1 complex	C	A protein complex required for the biogenesis of specialized organelles of the endosomal-lysosomal system, such as melanosomes and platelet dense granules. Many of the protein subunits are conserved between mouse and human; the mouse complex contains the Pallidin, Muted, Cappuccino, Dysbindin, Snapin, BLOS1, BLOS2, AND BLOS3 proteins.
GO:0031105	septin complex	C	A protein complex containing septins. Typically, these complexes contain multiple septins and are oligomeric.
GO:0031201	SNARE complex	C	A protein complex involved in membrane fusion; a stable ternary complex consisting of a four-helix bundle, usually formed from one R-SNARE and three Q-SNAREs with an ionic layer sandwiched between hydrophobic layers. One well-characterized example is the neuronal SNARE complex formed of synaptobrevin 2, syntaxin 1a, and SNAP-25.
GO:0031207	Sec62/Sec63 complex	C	A protein complex involved in the posttranslational targeting of proteins to the ER. In yeast, it is a tetrameric complex consisting of Sec62p, Sec63p, Sec71p and Sec72p.
GO:0031211	endoplasmic reticulum palmitoyltransferase complex	C	A dimeric complex of the endoplasmic reticulum that catalyzes S-palmitoylation, the addition of palmitate (C16:0) or other long-chain fatty acids to proteins at a cysteine residue.
GO:0031251	PAN complex	C	A complex that possesses poly(A)-specific ribonuclease activity; catalyzes the message-specific shortening of mRNA poly(A) tails. Contains at least two subunits, known as Pan2p and Pan3p in Saccharomyces.
GO:0031261	DNA replication preinitiation complex	C	A protein-DNA complex assembled at eukaryotic DNA replication origins immediately prior to the initiation of DNA replication. The preinitiation complex is formed by the assembly of additional proteins onto an existing prereplicative complex. In budding yeast, the additional proteins include Cdc45p, Sld2p, Sld3p, Dpb11p, DNA polymerases, and others; in fission yeast the GINS complex is present.
GO:0031262	Ndc80 complex	C	A protein complex conserved among eukaryotes that forms part of the kinetochore and plays an essential role in forming stable kinetochore-microtubule attachments. The complex contains proteins known in several species, including budding and fission yeasts, as Ndc80p, Nuf2p, Spc24p, and Spc25p. In vertebrates it is part of the outer plate of the kinetochore.
GO:0031298	replication fork protection complex	C	A protein complex conserved in eukaryotes and associated with the replication fork; the complex stabilizes stalled replication forks and is thought to be involved in coordinating leading- and lagging-strand synthesis and in replication checkpoint signaling.
GO:0031371	ubiquitin conjugating enzyme complex	C	Any complex that possesses ubiquitin conjugating enzyme activity.
GO:0031389	Rad17 RFC-like complex	C	A pentameric protein complex related to replication factor C, which loads a trimeric complex of checkpoint proteins (known as the checkpoint clamp or 9-1-1 complex) onto DNA at damage sites; functions in DNA damage cell cycle checkpoints. In Schizosaccharomyces pombe the subunits are known as Rad17, Rfc2, Rfc3, Rfc4, and Rfc5, while in Saccharomyces cerevisiae the subunits are known as Rad24p, Rfc2p, Rfc3p, Rfc4p, and Rfc5p.
GO:0031390	Ctf18 RFC-like complex	C	A heptameric complex related to replication factor C, which loads the DNA polymerase processivity factor proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) onto DNA and plays a vital role in chromosome cohesion. In Saccharomyces the subunits are known as Ctf18p, Rfc2p, Rfc3p, Rfc4p, Rfc5p, Dcc1p, and Ctf8p.
GO:0031391	Elg1 RFC-like complex	C	A pentameric complex related to replication factor C, which loads the DNA polymerase processivity factor proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) onto DNA and has roles in telomere length regulation and other aspects of genome stability. In Saccharomyces the subunits are known as Elg1p, Rfc2p, Rfc3p, Rfc4p, and Rfc5p.
GO:0031399	regulation of protein modification process	P	Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein.
GO:0031415	NatA complex	C	A conserved complex that catalyzes the transfer of an acetyl group to an N-terminal Ser, Ala, Gly, or Thr residue of a protein acceptor molecule. In Saccharomyces the complex includes Nat1p and Ard1p, and may contain additional proteins.
GO:0031416	NatB complex	C	A conserved complex that catalyzes the transfer of an acetyl group to the N-terminal residue of a protein acceptor molecule that has a Met-Glu, Met-Asp, Met-Asn, or Met-Met N-terminus. In Saccharomyces the complex includes Nat3p and Mdm20p.
GO:0031417	NatC complex	C	A conserved complex that catalyzes the transfer of an acetyl group to the N-terminal residue of a protein acceptor molecule that has a Met-Ile, Met-Leu, Met-Trp, or Met-Phe N-terminus. In Saccharomyces the complex includes Mak3p, Mak10p, and Mak31p.
GO:0031422	RecQ helicase-Topo III complex	C	A complex containing a RecQ family helicase and a topoisomerase III homologue; may also include one or more additional proteins; conserved from E. coli to human.
GO:0031428	box C/D snoRNP complex	C	A ribonucleoprotein complex containing small nucleolar RNA of the box C/D type that can carry out ribose-2'-O-methylation of target RNAs.
GO:0031429	box H/ACA snoRNP complex	C	A box H/ACA RNP complex that is located in the nucleolus.
GO:0031431	Dbf4-dependent protein kinase complex	C	A heterodimeric protein complex required for the activation of DNA replication origins; comprises a catalytic subunit and a regulatory subunit (in Saccharomyces, Cdc7p and Dbf4p, respectively); complexes identified in other species generally contain proteins related to the Saccharomyces proteins.
GO:0031463	Cul3-RING ubiquitin ligase complex	C	A ubiquitin ligase complex in which a cullin from the Cul3 subfamily and a RING domain protein form the catalytic core; substrate specificity is conferred by a BTB-domain-containing protein.
GO:0031475	myosin V complex	C	A myosin complex containing a dimer of class V myosin heavy chains and associated light chains; involved in intracellular transport. Myosin V is a dimeric molecule consisting of conserved motor domains followed by 6 IQ motifs which bind specific light chains and calmodulin. The tail domain is important for cellular localization and cargo binding and can be divided into an alpha-helical coiled coil region and a C-terminal globular region.
GO:0031499	TRAMP complex	C	A multiprotein complex having distributive polyadenylation activity of a variety of RNA substrates including hypomodified and incorrectly folded tRNAs, pre-snRNAs, pre-snoRNAs, incorrectly spliced or processed pre-mRNAs, cryptic unstable transcripts (CUTs), pre-rRNAs and rRNA fragments released as part of rRNA processing. In S. cerevisiae, the complex consists of either Pap2 (also known as Trf4) or Trf5, Air1 or Air2, and Mtr4, and is involved in RNA 3'-end processing and in RNA surveillance and quality control.
GO:0031501	mannosyltransferase complex	C	A complex that posseses mannosyltransferase activity.
GO:0031502	dolichyl-phosphate-mannose-protein mannosyltransferase complex	C	A complex that possesses dolichyl-phosphate-mannose-protein mannosyltransferase activity; usually includes members of the PMT1 and PMT2 protein subfamilies.
GO:0031510	SUMO activating enzyme complex	C	A conserved heterodimeric complex with SUMO activating enzyme activity.
GO:0031515	tRNA (m1A) methyltransferase complex	C	A protein complex involved in the catalysis of the formation of the modified nucleotide 1-methyladenosine (m1A) in tRNA. In yeast, it is a heterotetramer of two subunits, Gcd10p and Gcd14p, while in bacteria and archaea it is a homotetramer.
GO:0031518	CBF3 complex	C	A multisubunit protein complex that binds to centromeric DNA and initiates kinetochore assembly. In yeast, this complex consists of four subunits, namely Ctf13p, Skp1p, Cep3p and Cbf2p.
GO:0031533	mRNA cap methyltransferase complex	C	A protein complex that consists of an RNA 5' triphosphatase and a guanyl transferase (Cet1p and Ceg1p in S. cerevisiae; Pct1 and Ceg1 in S. pombe) and is involved in mRNA capping.
GO:0031588	AMP-activated protein kinase complex	C	A protein complex that possesses AMP-dependent protein kinase activity.
GO:0031931	TORC1 complex	C	A protein complex that contains at least TOR (target of rapamycin) and Raptor (regulatory-associated protein of TOR), or orthologs of, in complex with other signaling components. Mediates the phosphorylation and activation of S6K. In Saccharomyces, the complex contains Kog1p, Lst8p, Tco89p, and either Tor1p or Tor2p.
GO:0031932	TORC2 complex	C	A protein complex that contains at least TOR (target of rapamycin) and Rictor (rapamycin-insensitive companion of TOR), or orthologs of, in complex with other signaling components. Mediates the phosphorylation and activation of PKB (also called AKT). In Saccharomyces, the complex contains Avo1p, Avo2p, Tsc11p, Lst8p, Bit61p, Slm1p, Slm2p, and Tor2p.
GO:0031941	filamentous actin	C	A two-stranded helical polymer of the protein actin.
GO:0031942	i-AAA complex	C	Protease complex of the mitochondrial inner membrane whose catalytic residues lie on the intermembrane space side of the inner membrane; involved in mitochondrial protein turnover. Contains a subunit belonging to the AAA family of ATP-dependent metalloproteases.
GO:0032040	small-subunit processome	C	A large ribonucleoprotein complex that is an early preribosomal complex. In S. cerevisiae, it has a size of 80S and consists of the 35S pre-rRNA, early-associating ribosomal proteins most of which are part of the small ribosomal subunit, the U3 snoRNA and associated proteins.
GO:0032044	DSIF complex	C	A heterodimeric protein complex formed of Spt4 and Spt5 proteins which is expressed in eukaryotes from yeast to man. DSIF is an inhibitory elongation factor that promotes RNA polymerase II transcriptional pausing, but can also stimulate transcriptional elongation under certain conditions, and may play a role in RNA processing via its physical association with mRNA capping enzymes.
GO:0032045	guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor complex	C	A protein complex that stimulates the exchange of guanyl nucleotides associated with a GTPase.
GO:0032116	SMC loading complex	C	A protein complex required for the loading of a structural maintenance of chromosome (SMC) complex, such as cohesin, condensin or SMC5/SMC6, onto DNA. Appears to be eukaryotically conserved.
GO:0032126	eisosome	C	A cell part that is composed of the eisosome membrane or MCC domain, a furrow-like plasma membrane sub-domain and associated integral transmembrane proteins, and the proteins (eisosome filaments) that form a scaffolding lattice on the cytoplasmic face. Eisosomes broadly affect overall plasma membrane organization.
GO:0032133	chromosome passenger complex	C	A eukaryotically conserved protein complex that localizes to kinetochores in early mitosis, the spindle mid-zone in anaphase B and to the telophase midbody. It has been proposed that the passenger complex coordinates various events based on its location to different structures during the course of mitosis. Complex members include the BIR-domain-containing protein Survivin, Aurora kinase, INCENP and Borealin.
GO:0032182	small conjugating protein binding	F	Interacting selectively and non-covalently with a small conjugating protein such as ubiquitin or a ubiquitin-like protein.
GO:0032196	transposition	P	Any process involved in mediating the movement of discrete segments of DNA between nonhomologous sites.
GO:0032200	telomere organization	P	A process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of telomeres, terminal regions of a linear chromosome that include the telomeric DNA repeats and associated proteins.
GO:0032221	Rpd3S complex	C	A eukaryotically conserved histone deacetylase complex which deacetylates histones preferentially in promoter regions. Composed of a catalytic histone deacetylase subunit, a chromodomain protein, a SIN3 family co-repressor, and a WD repeat protein (Clr6p, Alp13p, Pst2p, and Prw1p respectively in Schizosaccharomyces; Rpd3p, Sin3p, Ume1p, Rco1p and Eaf3 in Saccharomyces; homologs thereof in other species).
GO:0032299	ribonuclease H2 complex	C	A protein complex that possesses ribonuclease H activity, in which the catalytic subunit is a member of the RNase H2 (or HII) class. For example, in Saccharomyces the complex contains Rnh201p, Rnh202p and Rnh203p.
GO:0032301	MutSalpha complex	C	A heterodimer involved in the recognition and repair of base-base and small insertion/deletion mismatches. In human the complex consists of two subunits, MSH2 and MSH6.
GO:0032302	MutSbeta complex	C	A heterodimer involved in binding to and correcting insertion/deletion mutations. In human the complex consists of two subunits, MSH2 and MSH3.
GO:0032389	MutLalpha complex	C	A heterodimer involved in the recognition of base-base and small insertion/deletion mismatches. In human the complex consists of two subunits, MLH1 and PMS2.
GO:0032543	mitochondrial translation	P	The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a protein in a mitochondrion. This is a ribosome-mediated process in which the information in messenger RNA (mRNA) is used to specify the sequence of amino acids in the protein; the mitochondrion has its own ribosomes and transfer RNAs, and uses a genetic code that differs from the nuclear code.
GO:0032545	CURI complex	C	A protein complex that is involved in the transcription of ribosomal genes. In Saccharomyces this complex consists of Ckb2p, Utp22p, Rrp7p and Ifh1p.
GO:0032777	Piccolo NuA4 histone acetyltransferase complex	C	A heterotrimeric H4/H2A histone acetyltransferase complex with a substrate preference of chromatin over free histones. It contains a subset of the proteins found in the larger NuA4 histone acetyltransferase complex; for example, the S. cerevisiae complex contains Esa1p, Yng2p, and Epl1p.
GO:0032787	monocarboxylic acid metabolic process	P	The chemical reactions and pathways involving monocarboxylic acids, any organic acid containing one carboxyl (COOH) group or anion (COO-).
GO:0032806	carboxy-terminal domain protein kinase complex	C	A protein complex that phosphorylates amino acid residues of RNA polymerase II C-terminal domain repeats; phosphorylation occurs mainly on Ser2 and Ser5.
GO:0032807	DNA ligase IV complex	C	A eukaryotically conserved protein complex that contains DNA ligase IV and is involved in DNA repair by non-homologous end joining; in addition to the ligase, the complex also contains XRCC4 or a homolog, e.g. Saccharomyces Lif1p.
GO:0032865	ERMES complex	C	A protein complex that links the endoplasmic reticulum with mitochondria and may have a role in promoting exchange of calcium and phospholipids between the two organelles. The complex is also associated with actively replicating mitochondrial DNA nucleoids, and may further coordinate mitochondrial genome replication and membrane growth.
GO:0033043	regulation of organelle organization	P	Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of a process involved in the formation, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of an organelle.
GO:0033062	Rhp55-Rhp57 complex	C	A conserved heterodimeric DNA recombinase mediator complex that contains the RecA family proteins Rhp55p and Rph57 in Schizosaccharomyces, or orthologs thereof (e.g. Rad55p and Rad57p in Saccharomyces).
GO:0033100	NuA3 histone acetyltransferase complex	C	A Gcn5-independent multisubunit complex that catalyzes the acetylation of histone H3. The budding yeast complex includes Sas3p, Taf30p, and Yng1p.
GO:0033186	CAF-1 complex	C	A conserved heterotrimeric protein complex that promotes histone H3 and H4 deposition onto newly synthesized DNA during replication or DNA repair; specifically facilitates replication-dependent nucleosome assembly with the major histone H3 (H3.1). In many species the CAF-1 subunits are designated p150, p60, and p48.
GO:0033203	DNA helicase A complex	C	A homohexameric protein complex that possesses DNA helicase activity; associates with DNA polymerase alpha-primase and translocates in the 5' to 3' direction.
GO:0033254	vacuolar transporter chaperone complex	C	A protein complex that contains four related proteins that have been implicated in several membrane-related processes, such as sorting of H+-translocating ATPases, endocytosis, ER-Golgi trafficking, vacuole fusion, vacuolar polyphosphate homeostasis and the microautophagic scission of vesicles into the vacuolar lumen. The complex is enriched at the vacuolar membrane, but also found in other cellular compartments, including the ER and the cell periphery. In Saccharomyces, the subunits are Vtc1p, Vtc2p, Vtc3p and Vtc4p.
GO:0033255	SAS acetyltransferase complex	C	A protein complex that possesses histone acetyltransferase activity and links histone acetylation to the assembly of transcriptionally silent chromatin. In vitro, the complex acetylates lysine 16 of histone H4 and lysine 14 of histone H3, although the latter may not be relevant in vivo. The complex contains a catalytic subunit and at least two other subunits; in Saccharomyces, the catalytic subunit is Sas2p and additional subunits are Sas4p and Sas5p.
GO:0033263	CORVET complex	C	A multimeric protein complex that acts as an endosomal tethering complex (CORVET = class C core vacuole/endosome tethering) by cooperating with Rab GTPases to capture endosomal vesicles and trap them prior to the action of SNAREs; the complex is involved in endo-lysosomal biogenesis and required for transport between endosome and vacuole. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae complex contains Vps8p, Vps3p, Pep5p, Vps16p, Pep3p, and Vps33p.
GO:0033290	eukaryotic 48S preinitiation complex	C	A protein complex composed of the small ribosomal subunit, eIF3, eIF1A, methionyl-initiatior methionine and a capped mRNA. The complex is initially positioned at the 5'-end of the capped mRNA.
GO:0033309	SBF transcription complex	C	A protein complex that binds to the Swi4/6 cell cycle box (SCB) promoter element, consensus sequence CRCGAAA, and activates transcription during the G1/S transition of the cell cycle. In Saccharomyces, the complex contains a heterodimer of the DNA binding protein Swi6p and the activator Swi4p, and is associated with additional proteins known as Whi5p and Msa1p.
GO:0033551	monopolin complex	C	A protein complex required for clamping microtubule binding sites, ensuring orientation of sister kinetochores to the same pole (mono-orientation) during meiosis I. In the yeast S. cerevisiae this complex consists of Csm1p, Lrs4p, Hrr25p and Mam1p; in S. pombe Psc1 and Mde4 have been identified as subunits.
GO:0033557	Slx1-Slx4 complex	C	A heterodimeric protein complex that possesses an endonuclease activity that specifically cleaves certain types of branched DNA structures; because such structures often form during the replication ribosomal DNA (rDNA) repeats, the complex plays a role in the maintenance of rDNA. The subunits are known as Slx1 and Slx 4 in budding and fission yeasts, and are conserved in eukaryotes.
GO:0033565	ESCRT-0 complex	C	A protein complex required for the recycling of Golgi proteins, formation of lumenal membranes and sorting of ubiquitinated proteins into those membranes. This complex includes Vps1p and Hse1p in yeast and the Hrs and STAM proteins in mammals.
GO:0033573	high affinity iron permease complex	C	A protein complex composed of a multicopper ferroxidase that oxidizes Fe(II) to Fe(III), and a ferric iron permease that transports the produced Fe(III) into the cell.
GO:0033588	Elongator holoenzyme complex	C	A heterohexameric protein complex that is involved in modification of wobble nucleosides in tRNA, and exerts direct effects on transcriptional elongation and exocytosis. The complex can associate physically with hyperphosphorylated RNA polymerase II; it contains two discrete heterotrimeric subcomplexes.
GO:0033597	mitotic checkpoint complex	C	A multiprotein complex that functions as a mitotic checkpoint inhibitor of the anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C). In budding yeast this complex consists of Mad2p, Mad3p, Bub3p and Cdc20p, and in mammalian cells it consists of MAD2, BUBR1, BUB3, and CDC20.
GO:0033698	Rpd3L complex	C	A histone deacetylase complex which deacetylates histones across gene coding regions. Composed of a catalytic histone deacetylase subunit, an Sds-3 family protein, a SIN3 family co-repressor, a WD repeat protein, and a zf- PHD finger (Clr6, Sds3, Pst1, Prw1, Png2 in Schizosaccharomyces pombe; Rpd3p, Sin3p, Ume1p, Pho23p, Sap30p, Sds3p, Cti6p, Rxt2p, Rxt3p, Dep1p, Ume6p and Ash1p in Saccharomyces cerevisiae).
GO:0033768	SUMO-targeted ubiquitin ligase complex	C	A nuclear ubiquitin ligase complex that specifically targets SUMOylated proteins; the complex is formed of homodimers or heterodimers of RNF4 family ubiquitin ligases and is conserved in eukaryotes.
GO:0034044	exomer complex	C	A protein complex that forms a coat structure on vesicles involved in exocytosis of proteins from the trans-Golgi network to the cell surface; in Saccharomyces, the complex contains Chs5p, Chs6p, and Chs6p paralogues.
GO:0034066	RIC1-RGP1 guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor complex	C	A protein complex that acts as a nucleotide exchange factor for the GTPase Ypt6p, and is required for fusion of endosome-derived vesicles with the Golgi.
GO:0034098	Cdc48p-Npl4p-Ufd1p AAA ATPase complex	C	A multiprotein ATPase complex required for the efficient dislocation of ER-lumenal degradation substrates, and their subsequent proteolysis by the proteasome. In budding yeast, this complex includes Cdc48p, Npl4p and Ufd1p proteins.
GO:0034099	luminal surveillance complex	C	A multiprotein complex that recognizes ERAD-luminal misfolded substrates and brings them to the ubiquitination/extraction machinery. In yeast, this complex consists of Yos9p, Kar2p and Hrd3p proteins.
GO:0034245	mitochondrial DNA-directed RNA polymerase complex	C	A DNA-directed RNA polymerase complex located in the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial RNA polymerase is composed of two subunits, a catalytic core, which resembles the enzymes from bacteriophage T7 and T3, and a specificity factor required for promoter recognition, which is similar to members of the eubacterial sigma factor family. In S. cerevisiae, these are encoded by the nuclear genes RPO41 and MTF1 and the specificity factor, required for promoter recognition and initiation, is not present in the elongating form.
GO:0034270	CVT complex	C	A protein complex that is involved in the CVT pathway. In budding yeast, the CVT complex consists of multimers of preApe1p.
GO:0034271	phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase complex I	C	A protein complex that posseses phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity and is involved in autophagy. In budding yeast, this complex consists of Vps30p, Vps34p, Atg14p and Vps15p.
GO:0034272	phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase complex II	C	A protein complex that posseses phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity and is involved in vacuolar protein sorting (VPS) via endosomes. In budding yeast, this complex consists of Vps30p, Vps34p, VPS38 and Vps15p.
GO:0034273	Atg1p signaling complex	C	A protein complex that contains a protein kinase and is required for the autophagosome formation. In budding yeast this complex consists of the kinase Atg1p, Atg13p and Atg17p.
GO:0034274	Atg12-Atg5-Atg16 complex	C	A protein complex required for the expansion of the autophagosomal membrane. In budding yeast, this complex consists of Atg12p, Atg5p and Atg16p.
GO:0034388	Pwp2p-containing subcomplex of 90S preribosome	C	A protein complex that forms a subcomplex of the 90S preribosome and can interact directly with the 5' External Transcribed Spacer (ETS) of the full length pre-rRNA transcript. In S. cerevisiae, it sediments at 25-30 S and is composed of Pwp2p, Dip2p, Utp21p, Utp13p, Utp18p, and Utp6p.
GO:0034424	Vps55/Vps68 complex	C	A membrane-associated protein complex that is required for a late stage of endosomal transport. In budding yeast, this complex consists of Vps55p and Vps68p proteins.
GO:0034448	EGO complex	C	A vacuolar membrane-associated protein complex that is required for activation of microautophagy during exit from rapamycin-induced growth arrest. In budding yeast, S. cerevisiae, this complex includes Gtr1p, Gtr2p, Meh1p, and Slm4p.
GO:0034455	t-UTP complex	C	A protein complex that forms a subcomplex of the 90S preribosome and is required for the subsequent assembly of the rest of the preribosome. In S. cerevisiae, it is composed of Utp5p, Utp4p, Nan1p, Utp8p, Utp9p, Utp10 and Utp15p.
GO:0034456	UTP-C complex	C	A protein complex that forms a subcomplex of the 90S preribosome. In S. cerevisiae, it is composed of Rrp7p, Utp22p, Ckb1p, Cka1p, Ckb2p and Cka2p.
GO:0034457	Mpp10 complex	C	A protein complex that forms a subcomplex of the 90S preribosome. In S. cerevisiae, it is composed of Mpp10p, Imp3p and Imp4p.
GO:0034515	proteasome storage granule	C	A multisubunit proteasome complex that localizes in the cytoplasm as dot-like structures when cells are in a quiescent state.
GO:0034657	GID complex	C	A protein complex with ubiquitin ligase activity that is involved in proteasomal degradation of fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (FBPase) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase during the transition from gluconeogenic to glycolytic growth conditions. In S. cerevisiae, the GID (Glucose Induced degradation Deficient) complex consists of Vid30p, Rmd5p, Vid24p, Vid28p, Gid7p, Gid8p, and Fyv10p.
GO:0034967	Set3 complex	C	A histone deacetylase complex that is involved in transcriptional regulation. In S. cerevisiae, this complex consists of Set3p, Snt1p, Hos4p, Sif2p, Cpr1p, Hos2p, and Hst1p.
GO:0034990	nuclear mitotic cohesin complex	C	A cohesin complex that mediates sister chromatid cohesion in the nucleus during mitosis; has a subunit composition distinct from that of the meiotic cohesin complex.
GO:0035101	FACT complex	C	An abundant nuclear complex, which was originally identified in mammalian systems as a factor required for transcription elongation on chromatin templates. The FACT complex has been shown to destablilize the interaction between the H2A/H2B dimer and the H3/H4 tetramer of the nucleosome, thus reorganizing the structure of the nucleosome. In this way, the FACT complex may play a role in DNA replication and other processes that traverse the chromatin, as well as in transcription elongation. FACT is composed of two proteins that are evolutionarily conserved in all eukaryotes and homologous to mammalian Spt16 and SSRP1. In metazoans, the SSRP1 homolog contains an HMG domain; however in fungi and protists, it does not. For example, in S. cerevisiae the Pob3 protein is homologous to SSRP1, but lacks the HMG chromatin binding domain. Instead, the yFACT complex of Spt16p and Pob3p, binds to nucleosomes where multiple copies of the HMG-domain containing protein Nhp6p have already bound, but Nhp6p does not form a stable complex with the Spt16p/Pob3p heterodimer.
GO:0035267	NuA4 histone acetyltransferase complex	C	A complex having histone acetylase activity on chromatin, as well as ATPase, DNA helicase and structural DNA binding activities. The complex is thought to be involved in double-strand DNA break repair. Subunits of the human complex include HTATIP/TIP60, TRRAP, RUVBL1, BUVBL2, beta-actin and BAF53/ACTL6A. In yeast, the complex has 13 subunits, including the catalytic subunit Esa1 (homologous to human Tip60).
GO:0035339	SPOTS complex	C	A multiprotein complex at least composed of serine palmitoyltransferases and ORM proteins (known as ORMDL proteins in mammals and other higher vertebrates) that plays a key role in sphingolipid homeostasis.
GO:0035361	Cul8-RING ubiquitin ligase complex	C	A ubiquitin ligase complex in which a cullin from the Cul8 subfamily and a RING domain protein form the catalytic core. In S. cerevisiae, Mms1p acts as the adaptor protein and substrate specificity is conferred by any of a number of different proteins.
GO:0035371	microtubule plus-end	C	The growing (plus) end of a microtubule. In vitro, microtubules polymerize more quickly at the plus end than at the minus end. In vivo, microtubule growth occurs only at the plus end, and the plus end switches between periods of growth and shortening, a behavior known as dynamic instability.
GO:0035649	Nrd1 complex	C	A complex that functions in transcription termination of RNA polymerase II transcribed non-coding RNAs. This complex interacts with the carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) of PolII and the terminator sequences in the nascent RNA transcript. In yeast this complex consists of Nrd1p, Nab3p, and Sen1p.
GO:0035657	eRF1 methyltransferase complex	C	A protein complex required for the methylation of a glutamine (Gln) residue in the protein release factor eRF1. In S. cerevisiae, this complex consists of at least Trm112p and Mtq2p.
GO:0035658	Mon1-Ccz1 complex	C	A protein complex that functions as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) and converts Rab-GDP to Rab-GTP. In S. cerevisiae, this complex consists of at least Mon1 and Ccz1, and serves as a GEF for the Rab Ypt7p.
GO:0035859	Seh1-associated complex	C	A protein complex that associates dynamically with the vacuolar membrane, and is proposed to have a role in membrane-associated trafficking or regulatory processes. In S. cerevisiae the complex contains Seh1p, Sec13p, Npr2p, Npr3p, Iml1p, Mtc5p, Rtc1p, and Sea4p.
GO:0036266	Cdc48p-Npl4p-Vms1p AAA ATPase complex	C	A multiprotein ATPase complex involved in the release of polyubiquitinated proteins, including those damaged by oxidative stress, from the outer mitochondria membrane into the cytoplasm where they are presented to the proteasome for proteolysis, a process also referred to as mitochondria-associated degradation (MAD). In budding yeast, this complex includes Cdc48p, Npl4p and Vms1p.
GO:0036396	MIS complex	C	An mRNA methyltransferase complex that catalyzes the post-transcriptional methylation of adenosine to form N6-methyladenosine (m6A). In budding yeast, the MIS complex consists of Mum2p, Ime4p and Slz1p. In vertebrates, the complex consists of METTL3, METTL14 and WTAP.
GO:0036436	Isw1a complex	C	An Isw1 complex that binds DNA and has nucleosome-stimulated ATPase activity. In S. cerevisiae, contains an Isw1p ATPase subunit in complex with Ioc3p.
GO:0036437	Isw1b complex	C	An Isw1 complex that binds DNA and has nucleosome-stimulated ATPase activity. In S. cerevisiae, contains an Isw1p ATPase subunit in complex with Ioc2p and Ioc4p.
GO:0042221	response to chemical	P	Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a chemical stimulus.
GO:0042255	ribosome assembly	P	The aggregation, arrangement and bonding together of the mature ribosome and of its subunits.
GO:0042272	nuclear RNA export factor complex	C	A protein complex that contains two proteins (know in several organisms, including Drosophila, as NXF1 and NXF2) and is required for the export of the majority of mRNAs from the nucleus to the cytoplasm; localized in the nucleoplasm and at both the nucleoplasmic and cytoplasmic faces of the nuclear pore complex; shuttles between the nucleus and the cytoplasm.
GO:0042273	ribosomal large subunit biogenesis	P	A cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules, assembly, and arrangement of constituent parts of a large ribosomal subunit; includes transport to the sites of protein synthesis.
GO:0042274	ribosomal small subunit biogenesis	P	A cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules, assembly, and arrangement of constituent parts of a small ribosomal subunit; includes transport to the sites of protein synthesis.
GO:0042393	histone binding	F	Interacting selectively and non-covalently with a histone, any of a group of water-soluble proteins found in association with the DNA of plant and animal chromosomes. They are involved in the condensation and coiling of chromosomes during cell division and have also been implicated in nonspecific suppression of gene activity.
GO:0042555	MCM complex	C	A hexameric protein complex required for the initiation and regulation of DNA replication.
GO:0042594	response to starvation	P	Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a starvation stimulus, deprivation of nourishment.
GO:0042719	mitochondrial intermembrane space protein transporter complex	C	Soluble complex of the mitochondrial intermembrane space composed of various combinations of small Tim proteins; acts as a protein transporter to guide proteins to the Tim22 complex for insertion into the mitochondrial inner membrane.
GO:0042720	mitochondrial inner membrane peptidase complex	C	Protease complex of the mitochondrial inner membrane, consisting of at least two subunits, involved in processing of both nuclear- and mitochondrially-encoded proteins targeted to the intermembrane space.
GO:0042721	mitochondrial inner membrane protein insertion complex	C	A multi-subunit complex embedded in the mitochondrial inner membrane that mediates insertion of carrier proteins into the inner membrane.
GO:0042729	DASH complex	C	A large protein complex, containing around 8-10 subunits in yeast, including Duo1p, Dam1p, Dad1p and Ask1p. The complex forms part of the kinetochore, associates with microtubules when the kinetochore attaches to the spindle, and plays a role in spindle attachment, chromosome segregation and spindle stability.
GO:0042765	GPI-anchor transamidase complex	C	An enzyme complex which in humans and yeast consists of at least five proteins; for example, the complex contains GAA1, GPI8, PIG-S, PIG-U, and PIG-T in human, and Gaa1p, Gab1p, Gpi8p, Gpi16p, and Gpi17p in yeast. Catalyzes the posttranslational attachment of the carboxyl-terminus of a precursor protein to a GPI-anchor.
GO:0042788	polysomal ribosome	C	A ribosome bound to mRNA that forms part of a polysome.
GO:0043144	snoRNA processing	P	Any process involved in the conversion of a primary small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA) transcript into a mature snoRNA.
GO:0043167	ion binding	F	Interacting selectively and non-covalently with ions, charged atoms or groups of atoms.
GO:0043224	nuclear SCF ubiquitin ligase complex	C	A ubiquitin ligase complex, located in the nucleus, in which a cullin from the Cul1 subfamily and a RING domain protein form the catalytic core; substrate specificity is conferred by a Skp1 adaptor and an F-box protein. SCF complexes are involved in targeting proteins for degradation by the proteasome. The best characterized complexes are those from yeast and mammals (with core subunits named Cdc53/Cul1, Rbx1/Hrt1/Roc1).
GO:0043291	RAVE complex	C	A multisubunit complex that in Saccharomyces is composed of three subunits, Rav1p, Rav2p and Skp1p. Acts transiently to catalyze assembly of cytoplasmic V1, with membrane embedded V0 to form the V-ATPase holoenzyme.
GO:0043505	centromere-specific nucleosome	C	A form of nucleosome located only at the centromere, in which the histone H3 is replaced by the variant form CENP-A (sometimes known as CenH3).
GO:0043527	tRNA methyltransferase complex	C	A multimeric protein complex involved in the methylation of specific nucleotides in tRNA.
GO:0043528	tRNA (m2G10) methyltransferase complex	C	A protein complex required for the methylation of the guanosine nucleotide at position 10 (m2G10) in tRNA. In S. cerevisiae, this complex consists of at least two subunits, Trm11p and Trm112p.
GO:0043529	GET complex	C	A multisubunit complex involved in ER/Golgi trafficking (Golgi to ER Traffic). In yeast, includes Get1p, Get2p and Get3p proteins.
GO:0043541	UDP-N-acetylglucosamine transferase complex	C	A multienzyme, heterooligomeric complex involved in dolichyl-linked oligosaccharide synthesis. In yeast the complex is composed of Alg7p, which catalyzes the first step (GlcNAc1-PP-Dol from dolichol-phosphate and UDP-GlcNAc), and Alg13p plus Alg14p, the catalytic and anchoring subunits respectively, which together catalyze the second step (GlcNAc2-PP-dolichol from GlcNAc1-PP-Dol and UDP-GlcNAc) of dolichyl-linked oligosaccharide synthesis.
GO:0043543	protein acylation	P	The addition of an acyl group, any group or radical of the form RCO- where R is an organic group, to a protein amino acid.
GO:0043564	Ku70:Ku80 complex	C	Heterodimeric protein complex composed of a 70 kDa and a 80 kDa subunit, binds DNA through a channel formed by the heterodimer. Functions in DNA double stranded break repair, chromosome maintenance, transcription regulation, V(D)J recombination, and activation of DNA-PK.
GO:0043614	multi-eIF complex	C	A multifactor complex composed of multiple translation initiation factors and the initiatior tRNAiMet, which is ready to bind to the small (40S) ribosome to form the 43S preinitiation complex. In S. cerevisiae, this complex is composed of eIF1, eIF2, eIF3, and eIF5.
GO:0043625	delta DNA polymerase complex	C	A multimeric DNA polymerase enzyme complex which differs in composition amongst species; in humans it is a heterotetramer of four subunits of approximately 125, 50, 68 and 12kDa, while in S. cerevisiae, it has three different subunits which form a heterotrimer, and the active enzyme is a dimer of this heterotrimer. Functions in DNA replication, mismatch repair and excision repair.
GO:0043934	sporulation	P	The process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spore over time, from its initiation to the mature structure. A spore is a structure that can be used for dissemination, for survival of adverse conditions because of its heat and dessication resistance, and/or for reproduction.
GO:0044611	nuclear pore inner ring	C	A subcomplex of the nuclear pore complex (NPC) that forms the inner rings of the core scaffold, a lattice-like structure that gives the NPC its shape and strength. In S. cerevisiae, the two inner rings are each composed of Nup192p, Nup188p, Nup170p and Nup157p. In vertebrates, the two inner rings are each composed of Nup205, Nup188 and Nup155. Components are arranged in 8-fold symmetrical 'spokes' around the central transport channel. A single 'spoke', can be isolated and is sometimes referred to as the Nup170 complex.
GO:0044612	nuclear pore linkers	C	A substructure of the nuclear pore complex (NPC) that serves to connect members of the central transport channel (composed of FG-nucleoporins) to the core scaffold (composed of the inner and outer NPC rings). In S. cerevisiae, the linkers are Nic96p and Nup82p. In vertebrates, they are Nup93 and Nup88. Components are arranged in 8-fold symmetrical 'spokes' around the central transport channel. Both linkers can be isolated in association with specific FG-nucleoporins, complexes that are sometimes referred to as the Nic96 complex (Nic96p-Nsp1p-Nup49p-Nup57p) and the Nup82 complex (Nup82p-Nup116p-Nup159p-Gle2p).
GO:0044613	nuclear pore central transport channel	C	The central substructure of the nuclear pore complex (NPC), through which nucleocytoplasmic transport of RNAs, proteins and small molecules occurs. The central transport channel is filled with FG-nucleoporins, which form a selective barrier and provide a series of binding sites for transporter proteins. Characterized S. cerevisiae FG-nucleoporins include Nup159p, Nup145Np, Nup116p, Nup100p, Nsp1p, Nup57p, Nup49p, Nup42p, Nup53p, Nup59p/Asm4p, Nup60p and Nup1. Characterized vertebrate FG-nucleoporins include Nup214, Nup98, Nup62, Nup54, Nup58/45, NLP1, and Nup153.
GO:0044614	nuclear pore cytoplasmic filaments	C	Filamentous extensions on cytoplasmic face of the nuclear pore complex (NPC). In S. cerevisiae, Nup159p, Nup82p, and Nup42p contribute to the cytoplasmic filaments. In vertebrates, Nup358 is a major component.
GO:0044615	nuclear pore nuclear basket	C	A filamentous, cage-like assembly on the nuclear face of the nuclear pore complex (NPC). In S. cerevisiae, Mlp1p and Mlp2p are two major components of the NPC nuclear basket. In vertebrates, Tpr is a major component.
GO:0044695	Dsc E3 ubiquitin ligase complex	C	An E3 ubiquitin ligase complex localized to the ER and Golgi membrane. In fission yeast comprises Dsc1, 2, 3 and 4. Involved in the processes of fission yeast sre1 (human SREBP) transcriptional activator proteolytic cleavage, the multivesicular body (MVB) pathway, and a post-endoplasmic reticulum pathway for protein catabolism.
GO:0044697	HICS complex	C	A multisubunit complex involved in cytokinesis. In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae this complex consists of Sho1p, Hof1p, Inn1p and Cyk3p proteins.
GO:0045025	mitochondrial degradosome	C	A mitochondrial protein complex with 3' to 5' exoribonuclease activity that participates in intron-independent turnover and processing of mitochondrial transcripts. In humans, the mitochondrial degradosome is a pentameric complex, and in yeast it exists as a heterodimer.
GO:0045261	proton-transporting ATP synthase complex, catalytic core F(1)	C	The sector of a hydrogen-transporting ATP synthase complex in which the catalytic activity resides; it comprises the catalytic core and central stalk, and is peripherally associated with a membrane, such as the plasma membrane or the mitochondrial inner membrane, when the entire ATP synthase is assembled.
GO:0045298	tubulin complex	C	A heterodimer of tubulins alpha and beta that constitutes the protomer for microtubule assembly.
GO:0045333	cellular respiration	P	The enzymatic release of energy from organic compounds (especially carbohydrates and fats) which either requires oxygen (aerobic respiration) or does not (anaerobic respiration).
GO:0046540	U4/U6 x U5 tri-snRNP complex	C	A ribonucleoprotein complex formed by the association of the U4/U6 and U5 small nuclear ribonucleoproteins.
GO:0046695	SLIK (SAGA-like) complex	C	A SAGA-type histone acetyltransferase complex that contains Rtg2 and a smaller form of Spt7 than the fungal SAGA complex, and lacks Spt8. The complex is involved in the yeast retrograde response pathway, which is important for gene expression changes during mitochondrial dysfunction.
GO:0048188	Set1C/COMPASS complex	C	A conserved protein complex that catalyzes methylation of histone H3. In Saccharomyces the complex contains Shg1p, Sdc1p, Swd1p, Swd2p, Swd3p, Spp1p, Bre2p, and the trithorax-related Set1p; in mammals it contains the catalytic subunit (SETD1A or SETD1B), WDR5, WDR82, RBBP5, ASH2L/ASH2, CXXC1/CFP1, HCFC1 and DPY30.
GO:0048193	Golgi vesicle transport	P	The directed movement of substances into, out of or within the Golgi apparatus, mediated by vesicles.
GO:0048284	organelle fusion	P	The creation of a single organelle from two or more organelles.
GO:0048285	organelle fission	P	The creation of two or more organelles by division of one organelle.
GO:0048308	organelle inheritance	P	The partitioning of organelles between daughter cells at cell division.
GO:0048476	Holliday junction resolvase complex	C	A protein complex that mediates the conversion of a Holliday junction into two separate duplex DNA molecules; the complex includes a single- or multisubunit helicase that catalyzes the extension of heteroduplex DNA by branch migration and a nuclease that resolves the junction by nucleolytic cleavage.
GO:0051049	regulation of transport	P	Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the directed movement of substances (such as macromolecules, small molecules, ions) into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.
GO:0051052	regulation of DNA metabolic process	P	Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving DNA.
GO:0051082	unfolded protein binding	F	Interacting selectively and non-covalently with an unfolded protein.
GO:0051169	nuclear transport	P	The directed movement of substances into, out of, or within the nucleus.
GO:0051186	cofactor metabolic process	P	The chemical reactions and pathways involving a cofactor, a substance that is required for the activity of an enzyme or other protein. Cofactors may be inorganic, such as the metal atoms zinc, iron, and copper in certain forms, or organic, in which case they are referred to as coenzymes. Cofactors may either be bound tightly to active sites or bind loosely with the substrate.
GO:0051233	spindle midzone	C	The area in the center of the spindle where the spindle microtubules from opposite poles overlap.
GO:0051321	meiotic cell cycle	P	Progression through the phases of the meiotic cell cycle, in which canonically a cell replicates to produce four offspring with half the chromosomal content of the progenitor cell via two nuclear divisions.
GO:0051603	proteolysis involved in cellular protein catabolic process	P	The hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein as part of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by individual cells.
GO:0051604	protein maturation	P	Any process leading to the attainment of the full functional capacity of a protein.
GO:0051726	regulation of cell cycle	P	Any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle.
GO:0055085	transmembrane transport	P	The process in which a solute is transported from one side of a membrane to the other.
GO:0055086	nucleobase-containing small molecule metabolic process	P	The cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleobase-containing small molecule: a nucleobase, a nucleoside, or a nucleotide.
GO:0055087	Ski complex	C	A protein complex that regulates RNA degradation by the exosome complex. In Saccharomyces the complex has a heterotetrameric stoichiometry consisting of one copy each of Ski2p and Ski3 and two copies of Ski8p.
GO:0061025	membrane fusion	P	The membrane organization process that joins two lipid bilayers to form a single membrane.
GO:0061576	acyl-CoA ceramide synthase complex	C	A protein complex that catalyzes the reaction acyl-CoA + sphingosine = CoA + N-acylsphingosine. In S. cerevisiae it contains three subunits: lag1, lac1 and lip1.
GO:0061617	MICOS complex	C	Mitochondrial inner membrane complex involved in maintenance of crista junctions, inner membrane architecture, and formation of contact sites to the outer membrane. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae the complex has six subunits: MIC10, MIC12, MIC19, MIC26, MIC27, and MIC60.
GO:0070187	telosome	C	A nuclear telomere cap complex that is formed by the association of telomeric ssDNA- and dsDNA-binding proteins with telomeric DNA, and is involved in telomere protection and recruitment of telomerase. The complex contains TRF1, TRF2, POT1, RAP1, TIN2 and TPP1 in mammalian cells, and Pot1, Tpz1, Ccq1, Poz1, Rap1, Rif1, Rif2and Rap1 in Schizosaccharomyces. Taz1 and Rap1 (or their mammalian equivalents) form a dsDNA-binding subcomplex, Pot1 and Tpz1 form an ssDNA-binding subcomplex, and the two subcomplexes are bridged by Poz1.
GO:0070188	Stn1-Ten1 complex	C	A nuclear telomere cap complex that is formed by the association of the Stn1 and Ten1 proteins with telomeric DNA; in some species a third protein is present.
GO:0070209	ASTRA complex	C	A protein complex that is part of the chromatin remodeling machinery; the acronym stands for ASsembly of Tel, Rvb and Atm-like kinase. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae this complex includes Rvb1p, Rvb2p, Tra1p, Tel2p, Asa1p, Ttilp and Tti2p.
GO:0070210	Rpd3L-Expanded complex	C	A protein complex that contains a histone deacetylase and is part of the chromatin remodeling machinery. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae this complex contains the Rpd3p, Sin3p, Ume1p, Pho23p, Sap30p, Sds3p, Cti6p, Rxt2p, Rxt3p, Dep1p, Ume6p, Ash1p, Dot6p, Snt1, Sif2p, Set3p, Hos2p, Tos4p and Tod6p proteins.
GO:0070211	Snt2C complex	C	A histone deacetylase complex that is part of the chromatin remodeling machinery. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae this complex contains Snt2p, Ecm5p and Rpd3p.
GO:0070271	protein complex biogenesis	P	A cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules, assembly, and arrangement of constituent parts of a protein complex. Includes the synthesis of the constituent protein molecules, and those protein modifications that are involved in synthesis or assembly of the complex.
GO:0070274	RES complex	C	A protein complex that is required for efficient splicing, and prevents leakage of unspliced pre-mRNAs from the nucleus (named for pre-mRNA REtention and Splicing). In Saccharomyces, the complex consists of Ist3p, Bud13p, and Pml1p.
GO:0070390	transcription export complex 2	C	A protein complex that couples SAGA-dependent gene expression to mRNA export at the inner side of the nuclear pore complex (NPC). The TREX-2 complex is tethered to the inner side of the NPC via the nucleoporins Nup1 and Nup60; in S. cerevisiae it contains Sac3p, Thp1p, Sus1p and Cdc31p.
GO:0070449	elongin complex	C	A transcription elongation factor complex that suppresses RNA polymerase II pausing, and may act by promoting proper alignment of the 3'-end of nascent transcripts with the polymerase catalytic site. Consists of a transcriptionally active Elongin A subunit (abut 100 kDa)and two smaller Elongin B (about 18 kDa) and Elongin C (about 15 kDa)subunits.
GO:0070545	PeBoW complex	C	A protein complex that is involved in coordinating ribosome biogenesis with cell cycle progression. In human, it is composed of Pes1, Bop1, and WDR12; in Saccharomyces the proteins are known as Nop7p, Erb1 and Ytm1 respectively.
GO:0070647	protein modification by small protein conjugation or removal	P	A protein modification process in which one or more groups of a small protein, such as ubiquitin or a ubiquitin-like protein, are covalently attached to or removed from a target protein.
GO:0070692	trimeric positive transcription elongation factor complex b	C	A positive transcription elongation factor complex b that comprises three subunits; an example is the budding yeast Ctk complex, which consists of Ctk1p, Ctk2p and Ctk3p.
GO:0070762	nuclear pore transmembrane ring	C	A subcomplex of the nuclear pore complex (NPC) that spans the nuclear membrane and anchors the NPC to the nuclear envelope. In S. cerevisiae, the transmembrane ring is composed of Pom152p, Pom34p, and Ndc1p. In vertebrates, it is composed of Gp210, Ndc1, and Pom121. Components are arranged in 8-fold symmetrical 'spokes' around the central transport channel. A single 'spoke', can be isolated and is sometime referred to as the Ndc1 complex.
GO:0070772	PAS complex	C	A protein complex that contains a phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate 5-kinase subunit (Fab1p in yeast; PIKfyve in mammals), a kinase activator, and a phosphatase, and may also contain additional proteins; it is involved in regulating the synthesis and turnover of phosphatidylinositol 3,5-bisphosphate. In mammals the complex is composed of PIKFYVE, FIG4 and VAC14. In yeast it is composed of Atg18p, Fig4p, Fab1p, Vac14p and Vac7p.
GO:0070822	Sin3-type complex	C	Any of a number of evolutionarily conserved histone deacetylase complexes (HDACs) containing a core consisting of a paired amphipathic helix motif protein (e.g. Sin3p in S. cerevisiae, Pst1 in S. pombe or Sin3A in mammals) at least one class I histone deacetylase (e.g. Rpd3p in S. cerevisiae, Clr6 in S. pombe, or HDAC1 and HDAC2 in mammals), and at least one WD40 repeat protein (e.g. Ume1p in S. cerevisiae, Prw1 in S. pombe, or RbAp46 and RbAp48 in mammals). These complexes also contain a variable number of other proteins that direct histone binding, DNA binding, or add other functionality to the complex.
GO:0070823	HDA1 complex	C	A tetrameric histone deacetylase complex that contains a Class II deacetylase catalytic subunit. In S. cerevisiae it is composed of two Hda1p subunits along with Hda2p and Hda3p.
GO:0070847	core mediator complex	C	A protein complex that interacts with the carboxy-terminal domain of the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II and plays an active role in transducing the signal from a transcription factor to the transcriptional machinery. The core mediator complex has a stimulatory effect on basal transcription, and contains most of the same subdomains as the larger form of mediator complex -- a head domain comprising proteins known in Saccharomyces as Srb2, -4, and -5, Med6, -8, and -11, and Rox3 proteins; a middle domain comprising Med1, -4, and -7, Nut1 and -2, Cse2, Rgr1, Soh1, and Srb7 proteins; and a tail consisting of Gal11p, Med2p, Pgd1p, and Sin4p -- but lacks the regulatory subcomplex comprising Ssn2, -3, and -8, and Srb8 proteins. Metazoan core mediator complexes have similar modular structures and include homologs of yeast Srb and Med proteins.
GO:0070860	RNA polymerase I core factor complex	C	A RNA polymerase I-specific transcription factor complex that is required for the transcription of rDNA by RNA polymerase I. In yeast the complex consists of Rrn6p, Rrn7p, and Rrn11p.
GO:0070916	inositol phosphoceramide synthase complex	C	A protein complex that possesses inositol phosphoceramide synthase activity and contains a catalytic subunit and a regulatory subunit (Aur1p and Kei1p, respectively, in Saccharomyces).
GO:0070925	organelle assembly	P	The aggregation, arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an organelle. An organelle is an organized structure of distinctive morphology and function. Includes the nucleus, mitochondria, plastids, vacuoles, vesicles, ribosomes and the cytoskeleton. Excludes the plasma membrane.
GO:0070939	Dsl1p complex	C	A multisubunit tethering complex, i.e. a protein complex involved in mediating the initial interaction between vesicles and the membranes with which they fuse, that is involved in trafficking from the Golgi apparatus to the ER. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae the Dsl1p complex contains Dsl1p, Tip20p, and Sec39p.
GO:0070985	TFIIK complex	C	A transcription factor complex that forms part of the holo TFIIH complex. In Saccharomyces/human, TFIIK contains Ccl1p/Cyclin H, Tfb3p/MAT1 and Kin2p/CDK7.
GO:0071004	U2-type prespliceosome	C	A spliceosomal complex that is formed by association of the 5' splice site with the U1 snRNP, while the branch point sequence is recognized by the U2 snRNP. The prespliceosome includes many proteins in addition to those found in the U1 and U2 snRNPs. Commitment to a given pair of 5' and 3' splice sites occurs at the time of prespliceosome formation.
GO:0071006	U2-type catalytic step 1 spliceosome	C	A spliceosomal complex that is formed by the displacement of the U1 and U4 snRNPs from the precatalytic spliceosome; the U2, U5 and U6 snRNPs remain associated with the mRNA. This complex, sometimes called the activated spliceosome, is the catalytically active form of the spliceosome, and includes many proteins in addition to those found in the U2, and U5 and U6 snRNPs.
GO:0071007	U2-type catalytic step 2 spliceosome	C	A spliceosomal complex that contains the U2, U5 and U6 snRNPs bound to a splicing intermediate in which the first catalytic cleavage of the 5' splice site has occurred. The precise subunit composition differs significantly from that of the catalytic step 1, or activated, spliceosome, and includes many proteins in addition to those found in the U2, U5 and U6 snRNPs.
GO:0071008	U2-type post-mRNA release spliceosomal complex	C	A spliceosomal complex that is formed following the release of the spliced product from the post-spliceosomal complex and contains the excised intron and the U2, U5 and U6 snRNPs.
GO:0071014	post-mRNA release spliceosomal complex	C	A spliceosomal complex that is formed following the release of the spliced product from the post-spliceosomal complex and contains the excised intron and three snRNPs, including U5.
GO:0071020	post-spliceosomal complex	C	A spliceosomal complex that is formed following the second splicing event and contains the spliced product, the excised intron, and three snRNPs, including U5.
GO:0071021	U2-type post-spliceosomal complex	C	A spliceosomal complex that is formed following the second splicing event and contains the spliced product, the excised intron, and three snRNPs, including U5.
GO:0071261	Ssh1 translocon complex	C	A translocon complex that contains a core heterotrimer of alpha, beta and gamma subunits, and may contain additional proteins (translocon-associated proteins or TRAPs); in budding yeast the core proteins are Ssh1p, Sbh2p, and Sss1p. The Ssh1 translocon complex is involved in the cotranslational pathway of protein transport across the ER membrane, and recognizes proteins bearing strongly hydrophobic signal sequences.
GO:0071513	phosphopantothenoylcysteine decarboxylase complex	C	A protein complex that catalyzes decarboxylation of 4'-phosphopantothenoylcysteine to yield 4'-phosphopantetheine; this is the third step in the biosynthesis of Coenzyme A. The complex is homotrimeric in many eukaryotes, but is a heterotrimer in Saccharomyces.
GO:0071554	cell wall organization or biogenesis	P	A process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules, assembly, arrangement of constituent parts, or disassembly of a cell wall.
GO:0071563	Myo2p-Vac17p-Vac8p transport complex	C	A protein complex that is involved in transport of vacuoles to a newly formed daughter cell. In yeast, this complex is composed of Myo2p, Vac17p, and Vac8p.
GO:0071595	Nem1-Spo7 phosphatase complex	C	A protein serine/threonine phosphatase complex that is involved in nuclear envelope organization, and contains proteins known in budding yeast as Nem1p and Spo7p.
GO:0071819	DUBm complex	C	A protein complex that forms part of SAGA-type complexes SAGA and SLIK, and mediates deubiquitination of histone H2B. In S. cerevisiae, the DUBm consists of the proteins Ubp8p, Sgf11p, Sus1p, and Sgf73p.
GO:0072380	TRC complex	C	An ER membrane insertion complex that contains subunits that recognize two types of transmembrane domain signals. In budding yeast the complex contains Get4p, Get5p, Sgt2p, and at least two heat shock proteins (HSPs).
GO:0072546	ER membrane protein complex	C	A transmembrane protein complex that is involved in protein folding in the endoplasmic reticulum. In S. cerevisiae, it has six members: EMC1, EMC2, AIM27, EMC4, KRE27, and EMC6.
GO:0072686	mitotic spindle	C	A spindle that forms as part of mitosis. Mitotic and meiotic spindles contain distinctive complements of proteins associated with microtubules.
GO:0072687	meiotic spindle	C	A spindle that forms as part of meiosis. Several proteins, such as budding yeast Spo21p, fission yeast Spo2 and Spo13, and C. elegans mei-1, localize specifically to the meiotic spindle and are absent from the mitotic spindle.
GO:0097078	FAl1-SGD1 complex	C	A protein complex involved in the 18S rRNA biogenesis. In S. cerevisiae this complex consists of Fal1p and Sgd1p and in humans this complex consists of NOM1 and eIF4AIII subunits.
GO:0097196	Shu complex	C	A protein complex involved in error-free DNA post-replication repair (PRR). In Saccharomyces cerevisiae the complex contains Csm2p, Psy3p, Shu1p, and Shu2p.
GO:0097249	mitochondrial respiratory chain supercomplex	C	A set of respiratory enzyme complexes of the mitochondrial inner membrane (including, for example, Complex II, Complex III, Complex IV, or F1-F0 ATPase) arranged to form a large supercomplex.
GO:0097255	R2TP complex	C	A highly conserved protein complex comprised of two ATP-dependent DNA helicases (Rvb1p and Rvb2p in yeast, Pontin52 and Reptin52 in humans), Pih1p in yeast or PIH1D1 in humans, and Tah1 in yeast or RPAP3 in humans. The complex associates with Hsp90 and is thought to have a role in assembly of large protein or protein/nucleic acid complexes. In this role it is involved in multiple processes such as box C/D snoRNP biogenesis, phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase-related protein kinase (PIKK) signaling, RNA polymerase II assembly, and others.
GO:0097344	Rix1 complex	C	A protein complex that comprises Rix1p, Ipi1p and Ipi3p, and is required for processing of ITS2 sequences from 35S pre-rRNA. The Rix1 complex has been identified in budding yeast and fission yeast, and members of this complex are conserved in higher eukaryotes.
GO:0097373	MCM core complex	C	A protein complex that contains Mcm4, Mcm6, and Mcm7 proteins, and possesses DNA helicase activity. In the heterohexameric MCM complex, the Mcm4/6/7 proteins form a stable core, and Mcm2, Mcm3, and Mcm5 are more peripherally associated.
GO:0097505	Rad6-Rad18 complex	C	A ubiquitin ligase complex found to be involved in post-replicative bypass of UV-damaged DNA and UV mutagenesis. In S. cerevisiae, the complex contains the ubiquitin conjugating enzyme Rad6 and Rad18, a protein containing a RING finger motif and a nucleotide binding motif. The yeast Rad6-Rad18 heterodimer has ubiquitin conjugating activity, binds single-stranded DNA, and possesses single-stranded DNA-dependent ATPase activity.
GO:0097582	dolichyl-phosphate-mannose-protein mannosyltransferase Pmt1p-Pmt2p dimer complex	C	A protein dimer complex that possesses dolichyl-phosphate-mannose-protein mannosyltransferase activity and, in S. cerevisiae, is composed of Pmt1p-Pmt2p.
GO:0097583	dolichyl-phosphate-mannose-protein mannosyltransferase Pmt1p-Pmt3p dimer complex	C	A protein dimer complex that possesses dolichyl-phosphate-mannose-protein mannosyltransferase activity and, in S. cerevisiae, is composed of Pmt1p-Pmt3p.
GO:0097584	dolichyl-phosphate-mannose-protein mannosyltransferase Pmt5p-Pmt2p dimer complex	C	A protein dimer complex that possesses dolichyl-phosphate-mannose-protein mannosyltransferase activity and, in S. cerevisiae, is composed of Pmt5p-Pmt2p.
GO:0097585	dolichyl-phosphate-mannose-protein mannosyltransferase Pmt5p-Pmt3p dimer complex	C	A protein dimer complex that possesses dolichyl-phosphate-mannose-protein mannosyltransferase activity and, in S. cerevisiae, is composed of Pmt5p-Pmt3p.
GO:0097586	dolichyl-phosphate-mannose-protein mannosyltransferase Pmt4p homodimer complex	C	A protein dimer complex that possesses dolichyl-phosphate-mannose-protein mannosyltransferase activity and, in S. cerevisiae, is composed of Pmt4p.
GO:0097587	MutLgamma complex	C	A heterodimer involved in the recognition of base-base and small insertion/deletion mismatches. In S. cerevisiae the complex consists of two subunits, Mlh1 and Mlh3.
GO:1990070	TRAPPI protein complex	C	A complex that tethers COPII vesicles at ER-Golgi intermediate compartment. Its role in this part of the vesicular transport may start at the ER exit sites. Binds to a component of the COPII coat. In yeast it includes the following subunits: Bet3 (as homodimer), Bet5, Trs20, Trs23, Trs31, Trs33 which are regarded as the "core subunits" of all TRAPP complexes in yeast.
GO:1990071	TRAPPII protein complex	C	A complex that mediates intra-Golgi traffic, Golgi exit, endosome-to-Golgi traffic, and the trafficking of autophagy proteins from Golgi to the pre-autophagosomal structure. Binds to a component of the COPI coat. In yeast it includes the following subunits: Bet3 (as homodimer), Bet5, Tca17, Trs20, Trs23, Trs31, Trs33, Trs65, Tr120, Tr130. The whole complex is thought to dimerize with itself.
GO:1990072	TRAPPIII protein complex	C	A complex that functions in anterograde transport at the Golgi and also regulates autophagy. In yeast it includes at least the following subunits: Bet3 (as homodimer), Bet5, Trs20, Trs23, Trs31, Trs33, Trs85. TRAPPIII may include further, as yet undescribed, proteins.
GO:1990112	RQC complex	C	A multiprotein complex that forms a stable complex with 60S ribosomal subunits containing stalled polypeptides and triggers their degradation (ribosomal quality control). In budding yeast, this complex includes Cdc48p, Rkr1p, Tae2p, Rqc1p, Npl4p and Ufd1p proteins.
GO:1990130	Iml1 complex	C	A protein complex involved in regulation of non-nitrogen-starvation (NNS) autophagic process. In S. cerevisiae this complex contains Iml1p, Npr2p and Npr3p proteins.
GO:1990131	Gtr1-Gtr2 GTPase complex	C	A heterodimer GTPase complex. In S. cerevisiae, this complex contains Gtr1p and Gtr2p proteins.
GO:1990221	L-cysteine desulfurase complex	C	A protein complex capable of cysteine desulfurase activity decomposing L-cysteine to L-alanine and sulfur. It belongs to a ubiquitous family of pyridoxal 5-phosphate (PLP)-dependent enzymes. In E. coli it consists of a SufS dimer.
